I love this story unconditionally. But this review is specifically for the Illustrated Version, not Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone itself as a story. That gets 5 stars.<br /><br />As for this, it's a gorgeous book. Sturdy, with a red cover and the beautiful dust jacket. A wonderful imagining of JK Rowling's world. I was, however, less impressed the more I read. The first few chapters feature an illustration on every page - something small, goofy, cute. A lot of little pictures of the Dursleys in those first pages. But as it goes on, the illustrations become sparser. And I feel like they missed the mark. They focused on little things, not the most exciting moments. There's not much of Hogwarts, of Magic, of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. There are a lot of pages decorated with color, but no illustrations. The more I read, the more I was disappointed. This should have been a book focused on the magic, the wonder, the incredible story. Instead it was focused on weird little details - the chess pieces, the Sorting Hat, the ghosts. Nothing of the Great Hall, or the moving staircases, or Quidditch? Hardly anything of Ron or Hermione? But two different illustrations of the ghosts in the Great Hall, a couple of suits of armor, a page dedicated to dragon eggs, plus two more to Troll Anatomy, and one of Vernon Dursley's rear end. I'd have to count, but I honestly think there were more illustrations of Dursleys than Weasleys, which feels wrong and off-balanced. I wonder if it was intended to focus on what the movies had only glossed over. But independent of the movies, it feels like the illustrator misses the mark. It's gorgeous, and all of the illustrations that are in there are amazingly well done, with incredible attention to detail. And I finished it hoping there will be illustrated editions of all 7 books. But if there are, I hope the illustrations are a little bit better thought-out.<br /><br />Additionally, I want to note that this version of the text is much closer to the original British edition that to the first American release. As someone who read this book back when there were only 3 books out, and many times since then, it was bizarre to have that slightly different version of the text, but with the stone still called &#34;the Sorcerer's Stone.&#34; Wasn't quite what I was expecting, though definitely not a problem. Had I known this, though, I would have bought the British version, so maybe someone out there will benefit from this knowledge.