This is the first time I buy an illustrated novel so I had no idea what to expect.There was a part of me that expected this to be sort of like a kinder garden book and for there to be illustrations on every single page. Fair warning to all those who think like me, we are wrong! Sometimes there where 6-8 pages without any illustrations. Now, that's not to say that the book has a small quantity of them. Being such a long novel artist Jim Kay had a lot to work with and he made good use of it. The illustrations are stunning and there are quite a few that I would love to have in prints to frame and placed in my room. That is how good the illustrations are in this book.<br /><br />Having said that, the author failed to make good used of a few key moments in the book. Especially noticeable in the last couple of chapters. There is no illustrations of the iconic entrance to the chamber of secrets, there are no drawing of Tom Riddle and Ginny is nowhere to be found as well. Meanwhile you get 2 illustrations of the bottle of Skele-Gro (the potion Madame Pomfrey uses to make Harry's bones grow back after Prof. Lockhart removes them) because apparently one illustration of the bottle was not enough. We also get about 300 illustrations of  the school. Hogwarts during the daylight, Hogwarts during the night time, Hogwarts from an angle, Hogwarts from the left and Hogwarts from the right. The school is beautifully illustrated but we didn't need so many drawing of it. The other think that annoyed me was that twice (maybe 3 times) a page would be left mid sentence and then 2 pages of illustration would follow and then the sentence would be finished 2 pages later. It destroyed the flow of the story at times. The letters could have been made smaller or bigger were needed so that the sentences would be finished properly before the 2 pages of illustration so as not to ruin the flow of things for the reader.<br /><br />Regardless of all the little things that could have been tweaked to take the book from good to great I still think is a magnificent book that any Harry Potter fan should get and I would definitely recommend it to friends. In fact I have a few friend in mind who might get this for Christmas.