Anytime an author re-releases a popular book, it feels a bit like a cash grab. JK Rowling and Harry Potter are no different, and the proof was the new covers which were released a few years ago. Therefore, when I heard that they were now releasing illustrated editions, I was skeptical at best! I decided to give this book a chance, and I was pleasantly surprised. The illustrator, Jim Kay, has done a splendid job of putting his own personal touches on so many characters and key scenes in the book. He drew on real life inspiration of people he knew and people he encountered in everyday life! To his credit, it doesn't appear that the movies (which were hit or miss) influenced him at all. This is a good and bad thing, as you get an idea of how characters should look in your head. Emma Watson is and probably will forever be Hermione in my head, but Kay's Hermione isn't as pleasant looking as Ms. Watson.<br /><br />What I love about the illustrations is how many there are and how detailed they are. There are pages with full illustrations, half-illustrations and sometimes just little ink or paint drops on the pages. There's Snape who looks more evil in sinister in Book 1, and I hope that Kay gradually shows his transformation through the coming books. There's a door with names carved into it of important book characters like Lupin, Riddle, and even JKR scrawled somewhere on it. And then, there's the glorious sorting hat! Kay's Sorting Hat is no cheap looking black hat with a mouth, but a colorful, stitched together monstrosity that looks like it has more of a story to tell than the movie one ever did.<br /><br />So who needs a copy of this book? In short, everyone! My child, when he is old enough to grow up with these books, will get to read the original hardcovers first, so that he can picture the story on his own first and encourage his own imagination. After this, I will reveal the illustrated hardcovers to him for his second read through, because let's be real. No one reads Harry Potter just once. Finally, if he wants to, the movies are there, but not necessary with this new line of illustrated books. The movies had the advantage of people aging naturally, but Kay has his work cut out for him in making all these characters age organically. However, I believe it is a challenge he is more than capable of answering! 10 stars!