I am still reeling from the final pages of this book, as I'm sure most readers will be. The 5th book in the Harry Potter series is quite a bit darker than the other four. While it takes off like a shot with Harry and his cousin Dudley being attacked by Dementors, the next half of the book is filled with frustration. Harry and Dumbledore are being publicly slandered by the Ministry of Magic, who seek to control every aspect of the wizarding world, including Hogwarts. They even install a horrific little witch as an Inquisitor to make sure everything is running according to Ministry standards. All this while Voldemort is on the loose!<br />It was only when I'd reached the height of MY frustration with the book and the near disintegration of happiness at Hogwarts that I realized what JK Rowling was up to. She brilliantly takes the reader on a ride through Harry's life. Just as he was expecting his 5th year at Hogwarts to be a wonderful escape from the mundanity of the Muggle world, so was I. And as Harry grows more and more frustrated with the Ministry of Magic's manipulations within Hogwarts, so did I. I completely empathized with everything Harry was going through, and I even became angry with Rowling, thinking, "Why did she do this? Why is she making this happen?" And then I realized what a HUGE message she was trying to convey: The Ministry of Magic (it seems to me) is very much like a governmental force. And in this book, the Ministry become very dictatorial. Even Dumbledore admits to making the mistake of incarcerating Sirius and Harry in their homes for their own protection, and he's not a party to the Ministry (thank heavens)! The whole book rings with the importance of freedom and being free to make one's own decisions. But it also speaks about knowledge and secrets, and the need we all have to know what's going on in our world. I really feel this book is a huge commentary on what's going on in the real world. It's almost eerie. And it's brilliant, and I would recommend it to anyone who has been shying away from it. It will break your heart, it will make you think, it will make you dream and hope, and there are moments (thank god for Fred and George) that you will laugh. It is a fantastic book.