Granted, Rowling made a great show of it by providing us with Goblet of Fire at 754 words.  It was marvelous and while a few people said it could have been cut down to a less voluminous size, i loved it all the more for it's detail.  I cannot say the same for Order of the Phoenix.<br />Order of the Phoenix lives up to its hype in many ways.  The beginning starts off as fraught with danger for Harry as any.  And he faces some of his greatest fears.  All doing this with an new edge to his personality, the angst and anger that comes with adolescence!  Imagine those feelings combined with Harry's already irritating habit of blaming himself for everything horrid that happens to him and his friends.  It's not a very healthy combination and Rowling weaves Harry's fears throughout the entire book leaving no emotion unscathed.<br />On top of this Harry has to juggle a monstrous new Defense Against the Dark Arts (who does believe in torture practices that are illegal), Snape giving him private tutoring, Sirius' own angst and bitterness at being an exile in the wizard world, a crush who always cries and mentions another boy's name in his presence and Voldemort's visions dancing in his head.  It is quite a bit too juggle!  And the wear shows on Harry especially in the end when it leads to a very dear person's death.<br />You may ask me what do i have to complain about after reading the above.  It sounds marvelous to me?  Oh all those parts were marvelous.  But  in the huge novel, i had to listen to Mrs.  Weasley complain a little too much about revealing information, watch the cleaning of a house that i really didn't care about the details, tour through the ministry of magic hearing too many adjectives about the beauty of the place, and much, much more that could have been edited.<br />I applaud Rowling on her development of the characters.  They have grown into splendid, mult-faceted individuals to be treasured (especially Neville Longbottom's), but it wouldn't hurt for her to focus a little more on plot and less on detail.  In the end, Dumbledore's talk with Harry mimicked a much loved scene in the Chronicles of Narnia's "The White Witch" in which Aslan speaks of an ancient magic with the four main characters.  While borrowing from the fantasy kettle has always made me love Rowling's work, in this instance i felt it lacking her original voice so prominent through out the first four.<br />Overall, this book answered very few questions that mature readers couldn't have surmised on their own.  And definitely leaves you wishing there had been a little more revealed.  But then that's become Rowling's trademark.  Keep readers in the Dark.  I have high hopes the last two books will deliver the answers, I just hope they are more concise and less prettily written as Phoenix was.