It's been interesting to skim through some of the other reviews on this site, it helps me to clarify my own feelings about this book. There were a lot of things I liked about it, some things I didn't, but overall it was a good read and one I recommend.<br />There's no doubt that the Harry in this book is not a very pleasant guy. He's sullen, angry and at times mean to his friends. I do think it may have been a little over the top and hammered home too much in fact. Yet I felt he grew some in maturity through the book, particularly in his teaching the other kids in the club and standing up to tell his story about Voldemort returning. He does more "real" in some ways, that he has failings and is not always the nicest person around. I think a lot of us can relate to being in a somewhat foul mood at times.<br />The book is definitely long and probably could have done with some more editing. However, I didn't find it quite as tedious as Book 4, which I felt suffered from this more. This one seemed to keep the action and events moving a bit more, and there was a lot of interesting stuff going on, plenty of new characters and new situations. I would still rank Book 3 as the best of the series though.<br />I have mixed feelings about the killing of a main character. It did seem somewhat unnecessary to me, and didn't really serve much purpose. And I almost didn't realize at first that the person had even died, it could have been better written. But I think it increases the suspense to know that everyone is in danger...particularly in a children's series you never really worry about the main characters, you know they will be fine. Rowling keeps us guessing, that's for sure!<br />Overall, it's a great book and does not let faithful readers of the series down. Many authors would tend to get lazy and not rise to as high standards when they know people will buy their books no matter what. I'm pleased that Rowling is still obviously hard at work to be sure that we enjoy ourselves and come out satisfied.