this book is the equal of all the other Harry Potter books. Often with such a multi-volumn series, the finale is a disappointment, but this is not the case here. True it is the darkest volumn of the series, but this was to be expected. Each story has been darker and more threatening than the previous one as the dark lord gained in strength. I think that it is worth noting that this series is no longer a typical "childrens book". The original audience has grown up along with the stories. As the author has said in televised interviews, the readers who started the series at eleven or twelve are now in their early twenties. The characters have needed to grow with them and it is a sign of the brilliance of the author that she did this seamlessly. Another sign of her brilliance is that in no point in the series does she "talk down" to her readers. The books are clearly written to assume that the readers have an average intelligence or above.  The heroes, from the beginning, use a high level problem solving logic to work out their plans.  Even when they are led off on wild goose chases, they have clearly logical reasons for their actions. None of the characters, even those who are peripheral to the plot, are cardboard.  All show themselves to be complex and higly motivated and all change and mature as the stories develope. One example of this is the character of Neville Longbottom. He begins as a pudgy bumbling target of every bully in the school. As the books progress, he emerges as a quiet, scholarly person with a tragic past, raised by a domineering grandmother, but with a passion for justice. In the last volumn, he  is shown as a  fighter worthy of bearing the great sword of Cedric Griffindor in battle against the dark lords magically enhanced serpent. He then retires back into his scholars life and finishes as a teacher at Hogwarts. This could have been a minor character, bumbling through the books as comic relief. the author has chosen to present him as a fully developed person, as she does nearly all the characters.<br />This book, like all of the series, is worthy of being read over and over again, discovering new viewpoints with every reading. In this light, this series ranks with Huckleberry Finn, Tom Sawyer, Kim, and The Lord Of The Rings as a landmark in the literature of the English language. I hope that the author continues writing, as she is one of the most brilliant authors of this century.