One curious aspect of the 7th and final Harry Potter book is that, after 6 years of education at Hogwarts, the 7th year takes place largely outside of the hollowed halls of England's Magic School.  Luckily, that's just a detail - we still get a deep and extended plot full of the peripheral characters that makes the Harry Potter universe so fulfulling.  And yes, Minerva McGonagall still has a significant part to play....  As the story starts, Harry and his mates (i.e. Hermione and Ron) have decided to skip the last year at Hogwarts and concentrate on the quest given Harry by the late Hogwarts headmaster, Dumbledore.  The quest is well-known to Potter readers: Voldemort is unkillable because he's split his soul into several pieces.  Harry's job: find the remaining pieces of Voldemort's soul and destroy them, allowing the corporeal Voldemort to finally be destroyed.<br /><br />The greater wizarding world is awash in mysterious disappearances/deaths as Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters step up their campaign to take over first the wizarding world and then the (non-magical) world at large.  In such a world order, non-magical beings would become 2nd-class citizens, and even magical people of non-magical heritage (e.g. Hermione) would be stripped of their rights.  Harry is target #1, declared by prophecy that only he or Voldemort (but not both) may live.  The book is mostly a cat-and-mouse game of Harry trying to find the Horocruxes containing Voldemort's soul pieces, and Voldemort trying to locate and defeat Harry.  In an inspired plot idea, Rowling has Voldemort pursuing a separate quest to Harry's, and Harry having to decide whether to attack/prevent Voldemort's ambitions at the expense of Harry's own quest.<br /><br />There are battles aplenty, and deaths aplenty as well.  There have been rumours of Harry's death at the end of Book 7 ever since the series turned serious (around Book 3, probably).  Naturally I won't say whether Harry (or anyone else) dies in this review, but I will say that Rowling's writing throws enough twists and turns into the plot that you certainly believe it possible that Harry could die.  The plot twists are well earned, however - while there is one "deus ex machina" moment where something appears for no good reason other than "it's magical", all the other twists grow organically from this book and from the previous books in the series.  Rowling makes good use of her accumulated extended cast and background lore.  It makes this final book complete and satisfying, even if one or more of your favourite characters are doomed to end up in the graveyard at the end.<br /><br />Thus, I think it's safe to say that Potter fans will largely be satisfied with the conclusion to the series (at least, those I've talked to have been!).  In the overall scheme of things, I still regard "Goblet of Fire" to be the best in the series.  This book falls somewhere in the middle - perhaps not as engaging as Prisoner of Azkaban or Half-Blood Prince, but certainly far superior to Order of the Phoenix.