From the first chapter of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, I was hooked on the series. J.K. Rowling might not be the best at technical writing ability (she tends to use the same descriptions too much, like "bellows"), but she is one of the best storytellers ever. Stong characters that you care about, vivid scenes, enchanting creatures, life lessons, and great action are all part of her books. And Harry Potter and The Deathly Hallows does not disappoint. The book is immediately dark, and be prepared for a death in the first chapter. That is not the only death in the first 100 pages. But the darkness is not stifling: the scene where Harry leaves Privet Drive for the last time is fun, escapist fantasy. Fred and George's sense of humor still is there. A major argument between Hermione and Ron also made me smile. The book is a little slow when Harry, Ron, and Hermione are camping throughout the country looking for the Horcruxes, but Rowling makes it clear through numerous close calls with Death Eaters that something could be right around the corner. The book ties up the loose ends nicely, and the back story of Dumbledore was unexpected. Don't worry - he is still a good guy. But he has flaws like good people in real life do. Like in Book 1, love is a major part of the book - you will see it even with some bad characters at the end. The trio (Harry, Ron, Hermione) survive with the help of that love/chivalry theme, but be prepared to pay for that happening with multiple well-known Order Members (a female member who dies is one of my favorite characters - was quite sad,) and a member of the Weasley family dying. I never thought the death of the tragic figure Snape would be so heartbreaking. The final battle between Harry and Voldemort is short, and you can kind of see Voldemort's manner of death coming - the short duel between Harry and Voldemort makes sense, though. Also, the massive battle of Hogwarts makes up for the quick battle between Harry and Voldemort. The battle of Hogwarts has it all - giants, huge spiders, house elves, and centaurs included! Even Luna, my favorite character, is there helping Harry and company. I'm glad Rowling didn't relegate her to the sidelines. In fact, most all the well-known characters, including teachers, participate in the Hogwarts battle. The epilogue was too short IMO. The author should not have to give details later about the professions of Harry, Ginny, Hermione, and Ron. But I liked one thing: the circle continues with the children of Harry/Ginny and Ron/Hermione going to Hogwarts. And based on the series, it's neat to think of the adventures the children might have.