Where to start with an 870-page novel that brings us once again into the world of our beloved hero Harry Potter?  How about with the fact that our hero of old is getting older and turning into a real teenager?<br />While I admit that it depresses me to see Harry so depressed, and in fact I was downright angry that Harry seems to have morphed into an even more selfish brat, it is only after I finished that I realized that he is modern youth.  Harry is growing up and this is his transcription of growth.  Ms. Rowling has captured male adolescence with such an accurate view that it pains me to read this brooding self-loathing fifth installment of our young hero.<br />Harry starts out as he does at the beginning of every year, at the Dursley's house of torment, only this year, Harry is changing.  Gone are the days of easy simple luck and easy heroics, Harry is starting to pout because it isn't going his way.  What he learns through the course of this book is the life lesson we all learn at one point or another, sometimes it isn't always about you.<br />In the course of this weighty novel, we watch as Harry goes from hero to zero, from having a hold on things to breaking apart inside and out.  Will Harry be able to pull through this one?  Can he survive the biggest loss of all?  More importantly, is he ever going to learn to control that temper of his?<br />I must confess, Harry's new attitude has taken a sour note with me.  I find myself bothered by people who think that it is okay to treat others with contempt and let their tempers get the best of them.  I find that Harry rarely receives the appropriate discipline and that even in the end of this well-crafted and riveting story, he still finds himself being rewarded for the wrong things and commended for the attitude he should not be holding on to.  How can a boy retain his friends when he shows no appreciation for them?  Don't get me wrong, I can completely understand his feelings and see his point of view, but I have to agree with Phineas' last chapter statement regarding Harry (SPOILER) when he says "Never try to understand the students.  They hate it.  They would much rather be tragically misunderstood, wallow in self-pity, stew in their own -"<br />Granted Harry is growing up, but where is his conviction?  Where is his heart?  How can a young man so full of rage really win over the "Dark Lord?"  I thought the game was love > evil?  Not anger = passion > evil.  I suppose I'm confused.<br />Despite its dark and brooding overtones, it is still a fabulously well written book, and I did not put it down until I had completed it.  While I feel that Harry is really a short-tempered spoiled (and undeniably lucky) brat, Ms. Rowling has done little to endear him to me in this novel, if anything, I was left with a bit of a bitter taste in my mouth towards him by the time the last page closed.  This book has its moments and I'll continue to read the rest of them, I just feel that we aren't reading the same things we started with.