Author JK Rowling made us wait three years for the next installment of this series. In between, it seems she made some movies, had a child and wrote almost 900 pages of the latest Harry Potter novel. The burning question is: was it worth the wait? Does it live up the expectations that the last four books and the long wait set?<br />Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix is stupendous, by far my favorite to date. Rowling manages, somehow, to weave together a dozen different plot elements and make them all work together, in fact effectively to play off one another. In Order of the Phoenix, we find the continuation of the saga of Harry Potter and his adventures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. This episode may be the strongest effort yet by Rowling. The story line itself is every bit as exciting and compelling as the previous episode (Goblet of Fire), and Rowling's descriptive abilities and creativity are in great evidence, making the writing colorful and easy to read.<br />This fifth installment, however, marks a serious evolution of the story, paralleling the growth of her rapidly maturing characters, now young adults in their fifth year of school. The story itself is noticeably bleaker than past books, and the reader will share Harry's growing teenage anxiety as he deals with trying issues, both mundane and extraordinary. Harry and his pals are not children anymore, and this plot reflects the seriousness, not to mention the tragedy, of the evolving struggle between dark and light. As Voldemort's return begins to define a stark new reality for the "wizarding world," the problems Harry and his friends face also grow more profound. Rowling does a tremendous job of pulling the reader inside the head of the increasingly troubled teenager, even as his situation goes from bad to worse (and frequently to alarmingly worse).<br />But it's not just the main characters and the plot that change. Secondary characters, new and old, are a cut above prior novels. The aptly named Professor Umbridge competes admirably with Snape and Voldemort for "Most Despicable" honors. Most impressive of all, though, is returning Professor McGonagall. Book 5 marks, in my opinion, the entrance of a "new and improved" Professor McGonagall, from whom the firecracker personality Rowling has hinted at in the past finally emerges in force from underneath the stodgy façade she had so far maintained. Of particular note is the career-counseling scene, featuring Harry, McGonagall and Umbridge, where McGonagall reaches her full potential as a complex supporting character. It is, without question, my favorite scene thus far in the entire series.<br />The book weighs in at a hefty 850+ pages, but you won't be using it as a doorstop. It reads quickly and should maintain the reader's attention from first page to last. Was it worth the wait? You bet it was. Go buy this book, and hope that you don't have to wait another three years to see if Rowling can equal it.