I'm quite certain that thousands of people have already reviewed Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.  It was really funny to see people reviewing this alleged final installment in the Harry Potter saga before the book even came out.  But after reading it through a few times and listening to it on audioBook CDS as narrated by Jim Dale (FIVE STAR PRODUCTION!), I thought I might throw in my two cents worth.<br /><br />Each time I have read the book or listened to it narrated, I have found more depth and deeper layers than I had discovered in the previous go around.  (It also compelled me to re-read or listen to the other six books!)  I originally was skeptical that J.K. Rowling really had a set plot line for all seven books or that Harry Potter popped into her head fully formed as she has claimed when the Philosopher's/Sorcerer's Stone came out but I can see now that she definitely had a main plot line right from the beginning (even if she made minor changes along the way in sub-plots and such).  I only deeply regret that she didn't emphasize Wand Lore more in the first six books as well as why Albania was important to Voldemort.  I found the Wand Lore absolutely fascinating and regretted that she didn't explore this more throughout the series as the concept of a wizard or witch's wand becoming something more than just a way to perform spells but rather a friend who makes the journey together in the life magical.  The way she had Ollivander speak of wands in the first book and the last book make me wish she had created a "Wand Lore Class" at Hogwarts.  Harry would have been much more prepared for what was to come if he had taken such a class.<br /><br />Though I loved the book as a whole, I personally found the epilogue weak and very poorly detailed, leading me to believe that J.K. Rowling is most likely going to write sequels of Harry Potter in his adult years and hopefully well-written prequels.  For instance, here are just a few things that I, as an avid Harry Potter fan would like to have seen answered in the epilogue:  What happened during those nineteen years between him facing Voldemort in their duel inside the walls of Hogwarts and the Potter family showing up to see their children off to school on the Hogwarts' Express?  Where are they living?  If Number 12 Grimmauld Place, how do they keep Mrs. Black quiet?  What is Harry doing for a living?  We know Neville is a teacher at Hogwarts but not a peep or hint as to the principle characters except that Ron has learned how to drive, leading me (us?) to believe they are not living in a Wizarding community such as Godric's Hollow.  What is Hermione and Ginny doing?  I really thought Hermione would become a professor but nothing is mentioned.  Is Harry an Auror or did he perhaps follow in Ollivander's footsteps?  Why should Draco Malfoy be allowed freedom?  What happened to Luna?  What happened to his cousin Dudley?  Perhaps he'd end up marrying a witch?  Wouldn't Aunt Petunia LOVE that?  LOL.<br /><br />So those are my objections to the epilogue and some of the reasons why I feel the series will continue.  I would buy the books!  But the epilogue notwithstanding, I found Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows to be a riveting book filled with grand images, contemporary issues that we muggles have to deal with, a range of characters and plot twists that can entertain adults such as myself, teenagers (Chapter one really isn't for kids in my opinion) as well as senior citizens such as some of my family who read the book at the same time I did when it was released.  Moreover, I genuinely felt at though J.K. Rowling truly came into her own in this book as an author and it would be a shame to see her not continue entertaining us with stories of the witches and wizards of Britain!<br /><br />If you haven't yet read "Year Seven" in the Harry Potter saga, I have tried hard not to spoil the ending.  (I hope I have succeeded.)  Though I was thoroughly well-versed in the Harry Potter universe in preparation for The Deathly Hallows, many of the things that happened took me by surprise.  I believe you will thoroughly enjoy the book.  As an aside, I personally recommend the Deluxe Edition though it is a little more spendy.  It's a legacy item that if kept in good condition is surely going to be worth something far more than what you originally paid for it.  My questions regarding the epilogue undoubtedly give away certain things but enjoy the book, regardless of the epilogue.  I genuinely hope that J.K. Rowling will give her fans more of the magical world of Harry Potter and his friends.  There are definitely dark wizards that weren't dealt with and The Deathly Hallows themselves are now in play for some future "next gen" Voldemort to try to claim for him or herself.  In short, J.K. Rowling has left the Quidditch field wide open and in my opinion, the Golden Snitch hasn't been caught yet.  She should give her fans some true closure and/or allow other authors to pick up where she has left off.<br /><br />So I commend this book to you as you journey into Harry's seventh year of magical education even if he barely spends any time at Hogwarts during that year.  We can hope to hear about Dumbledore, James and Lily and even Severus Snape in prequels.  And there is so much material for sequels into Harry Potter's future.  But regardless, if Ms. Rowling chooses not to satisfy our curiousity, we can always imagine what the future holds for the characters based upon what she has written.  Enjoy and prepare to be shocked, disturbed, tantalized, confunded, stupefied and even surprised!