(No more spoilers lie herein than you'd find on the jacket of the book.)<br />J.K. Rowling's "Harry Potter" series falls somewhere between pre-adolescent fantasy and timeless literature; its protagonist is a boy who grows before our eyes, and although Rowling's universe was clearly assembled before she began her first book, her skill as a writer grows along with Harry.<br />My childhood was filled with Madeleine L'Engle, Susan Cooper, C.S. Lewis, and J.R.R. Tolkien.  Rowling is perhaps this generation's only provider of truly transcendent literature for youngsters, keeping her subject interesting to the young reader without compromising quality or engaging in histrionics.  (The Lemony Snicket series, which is perhaps funnier to adults than to children, is still not great literature - more like Edward Gorey in typeset instead of ink.)<br />With "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix", Rowling spreads her wings and also allows Harry to branch out into humanity with all its many facets.  If the Harry Potter of the "Sorcerer's Stone" was too plucky in the face of adversity for you, you'll relate much more to the 15-year-old, who now faces all of the crippling insecurities and doubt that make life as a teenager both harrowing and educational.  His gut-wrenching triumph at the close of "Goblet of Fire" is brought into sharp, non-fantasy relief by the opening of "Order of the Phoenix".  The Harry Potter phenomenon in our world is at its nadir; in Harry's world, he has returned to the role of misfit and outcast that he thought he'd left behind when he began his life at Hogwart's.<br />Rowling's writing is more confident, as though the voice of the 15 year old boy is the one she knows best.  She describes in succinct phrases the heady mood swings of adolescence, showing neither pity nor disdain to the subject.  The story here is much more dark; the Triwizard Tournament of "Goblet of Fire" was still a school contest, but the outside world encroaches on Hogwart's in this tale and the tone from start to finish is darker for it.<br />The Harry in this story faces many of the things a headstrong boy his age would in the real world - challenges of popularity, struggling in school, minor run-ins with law enforcement and tests of strength in his friendships.<br />"Order of the Phoenix" trusts its young readers to be able to use all of the Harry history they know to follow him through the book's events, and emerge unscathed even if a few sleepless nights between cliffhanger chapters occur on the way to the end.  The suspense and tension in this novel are genuine from the first chapter onward, unlike Goblet of Fire, which always felt safe until its very end.<br />Although my personal opinion is that children will find far worse on prime time television, some parents may feel the minor language and descriptions of violence in the book are too much for younger kids.  (In truth, I often chuckled at the very rare and well-placed minor cursing - which captured the unsteady voice of a teenager who is only beginning to test his right to speak those words aloud.)<br />We need not fear that the Harry Potter series will outgrow its original core reading audience, since it's growing up with them apace.  I also strongly recommend "Order of the Phoenix" to adults who found the first Harry Potter books too childish for their liking.