Following are some of the numerous comments on this book that I find truly accurate about this final and truly fantastic story by Rowling.  You'll laugh, cry (both from sadness and from joy) and in general be COMPLETELY surprised by this final book ...a real masterpiece of story telling that you'll never forget .... I have followed these books for the last 10 years and marveled at their popularity ... there is a reason for that .... excellent storytelling .... at 55 this book is one of the best birthday presents I have ever had ...<br /><br />The heart of Book 7 is a hero's mission--not just in Harry's quest for the Horcruxes, but in his journey from boy to man--and Harry faces more danger than that found in all six books combined, from the direct threat of the Death Eaters and you-know-who, to the subtle perils of losing faith in himself. Attentive readers would do well to remember Dumbledore's warning about making the choice between "what is right and what is easy," and know that Rowling applies the same difficult principle to the conclusion of her series. While fans will find the answers to hotly speculated questions about Dumbledore, Snape, and you-know-who, it is a testament to Rowling's skill as a storyteller that even the most astute and careful reader will be taken by surprise.<br /><br />I am going to terribly miss these characters. Over the years, they have become much like my favorite comfortable blanket. I hope that in the future, Ms. Rowling might consider revisiting the world of Hogwarts and some of these beloved witches and wizards. But even if she does not, I hope Ms. Rowling continues to write. Such wonderful talent should never go unused! Thank you, JKR, for years of incredibly unique and smartly written entertainment. I am now going back to the beginning, and reading them all in order. I'm just not ready to let go quite yet. ; )<br /><br />A spectacular finish to a phenomenal series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is a bittersweet read for fans. The journey is hard, filled with events both tragic and triumphant, the battlefield littered with the bodies of the dearest and despised, but the final chapter is as brilliant and blinding as a phoenix's flame, and fans and skeptics alike will emerge from the confines of the story with full but heavy hearts, giddy and grateful for the experience. --Daphne Durham