Be careful, some spoiler!! I like the book I lot but I was expecting more. First, Harry never showed to be better than his friends, the 3 main characters were the same level for me but Harry always took the credit. In the sixth book, after Dumbledore dies, I was sad but I thought it was necessary so now Harry was going to show how powerful wizard he was because Dumbledore was not there to help, but he didn't. So his dead didn't make any difference. Harry was, as Snape once said, always helped by luck and by cleverer friends, I was hoping for a change.  Even when I think her idea makes sense, she plotted Harry as a mistake done by Voldemort and not as a real hero. In the other hand I have to admit that Harry did have many good qualities but again, Hermione was as honest and selfless as he was and even cleverer. Second, Rowling didn't said what Harry's parents did for living and, what about Harry's relatives from his father's side? The deaths were no so touching because she didn't explain how they died, not even who killed them.  The hallows, the title of the book, was not a very important part. I guess it was an important part of Dumbledore's story and weakness, but not a main point for Harry. I think it would have made more sense if she said that Harry survive the second to the last of Voldemor'st attacks because at that point he was already the owner of the three hollows. Finally, did Harry become an Auror? He always wanted this and I was so curious to know if he did it or not.<br />In the other hand I like what happened with Snape, I didn't expected a lovely reconciliation between Harry and him because there was so much bitterness in their relationship and for me was surprising how much Snape helped Harry. I like that he knew about Snape in the pensieve because a conversation between them was going to be too simple and nobody else was going to be able to tell the truth but Snape himself.<br />In general I like the book so much. There were very good situations and battles. Even when I don't agree with the way things happened, I think she can make sense of them. The seven books were excellent and I have to say that she is a really good writer, but nobody is perfect!