Now that all seven volumes of the Harry Potter story have been published, many come away wondering what the fuss was all about.  Was it all hype?  Was all the attention poured on Rowling's creation (which not incidentally made her very wealthy women) really all that edifying?  Yes, thousands if not millions of children took up interest in reading itself; but, in our new age with other more advanced media, doesn't this no longer impress us as we once thought it should?  It all comes down to the story that is told and the question "is it any good?".<br /><br />Much of this uncertainty follows in the shadow of the LORD OF THE RINGS movie trilogy.  Much of the public has no taste for this kind of entertainment and would go so far as to hate it.  Thus they look down on THE LORD OF THE RINGS as a very bad fad that is best done with and forgotten.  The fact that Tolkien's magnum opus was published in the early 1950's and long had a growing devoted readership seems to escape their notice.  Nonetheless, much the same attitude is spit out at Harry Potter.  "Get the books out, make the damn movies, and let us forget all this rubbish."<br /><br />Some people will never be happy with Potter.  But if you have withheld yourself from all things Rowling, there is something to be said.  The Potter saga wasn't written in an isolated instance of prose.  The Romantic Movement in the 19th century loved to embrace the notion that art sprang out of the creator's unique wild dance of passion.  Along with unleashing an avalanche of bad art, it has to be said that the Romantics didn't even follow their own advice.  Artist creation never exists ex nilo.  Creation taps into the organic soup of memory and archetypes which makes writing intelligible not only to the reader but to the writer himself.  Like all good writers, Rowling hugs the shore of the West's love for the spoken and written word.<br /><br />In appreciating the Harry Potter books, it has to be noted that we in the West have inherited a treasure of storytelling (however dimly remembered) from which most of our contemporary literature draws on. Much of it is pre-Christian, some fantastical, some epic, danger is a common theme, and nearly all of it values courage and cunning. As Christianity advanced across Europe, a different sort of storytelling evolved while the older stories were seen in a different light.  Even so, much of us our primordial memories (if you will) found themselves in the dwellers in dark forests, fishermen on the shores, and the wooden, thatch covered houses in rural meadows.  We love to be told stories. It's in our bones.<br /><br />Part of our sense of storytelling is that "perfect" characters are not believable or interesting to us. This comes to us not only from our folklore but from the Bible itself. In the Potter books, the over arching feature shows Harry becoming an adolescent, enduring the trials of being a teenage, and finally stepping in the adulthood. In doing so, Harry illustrates much of the charm, problems, and personal shortcomings common to all of us along early life's way. Harry makes many mistakes and does not respond well to several childhood/adolescent challenges. While the Potter books are not "preachy" about it, the reader can see Harry's "misjudgments" for what they are.<br /><br />The major problem many have with the Potter books is that everything takes place within the world of magic. To some, Potter trespasses into the forbidden world of witchcraft. To others, the book portrays a false world when it should teach our children about the reasonable and orderly nature of the real world devoid of superstition. But most of us at some level recognize the magical world in the books is the setting and metaphor for spiritual war. There is good and evil with all the confusion, mystery and treason we know in between. Throughout the books there is the constant question of which will win out in the end. At times it appears it can go either way. Looking past all the magic, this is the world as we know it.<br /><br />This is not to say the Potter books belong in the pantheon of great literature. Sometime the writing is awkward and only workman like. The plots tend to drag in the middle of each volume. And many of the characters are not fully developed--odd given the length of each book. Even so, Harry Potter is a great read.  Try to explain the some of the elements of Harry Potter and it sounds childish.  Yet it is compelling on the written page.  This has to chalked up to Rowling's our skill and the fact she takes her story seriously and never condescends to the reader.  It is for these reasons interest and enjoyment for this series will extend long past most of the popular novels sitting on our shelves today.