This adventures book is about a young boy who has no knowledge of magic, sorcery, and evil encounters. Harry potter only knows of an abusing life with his selfish and destructive aunt and uncle, and their repulsive son, Dudley. However, one winters evening harry received a letter brought by a mysterious bleached white owl, that was inviting him to a remarkable place called Hogwarts. Harry was soon to discover a world he has never known, a world of magical experiences, and things he has only dreamed of. There he will discover his love for magic, friends, and much more. Harry will now realize his destiny that has been awaiting him, but it will take a lot of strength and courage to overcome the challenges he will face.<br /><br /> In this book, the experiences were as real as it could get. I felt so intrigued; I felt a connection with this novel. My personal connection to this book was with Harry's best friend, Ron Weasley. I felt this connection because Ron is Harry's greatest friend and Ron help harry with everything, he would do anything for harry. He was an astounding friend to everyone. Ron wasn't the most courageous but throughout the book and the series he found his bravery and showed it and became something of himself.<br /><br /> When you read this book, if you felt as connected and as fascinated, as I was than these are the books for you. Harry potter is a 7 book series and consists of the most invigorating adventures and encounters. However, there are other books than the Harry potter series, books that harry potter readers would enjoy would be "the lord of the rings trilogy" or "the hunger games". I think readers would enjoy these other novels because they are exciting and in depth and overflowing with detail on every page! You cannot go without reading these if you enjoyed harry potter and the sorcerer's stone.<br /><br /> This book is honestly such a great book, and I'm not just saying that. I am not the biggest reader out there, and I can't say this about most books but I completely loved this book and the rest of the series. Every time I read this book I feel like I'm in Hogwarts and I never want to leave! Every page is like a storm of detail and excitement. Every chapter is a new adventure and a new piece of the story, and right when you start you just want to find all the pieces. This book is like being in a world where anything can happen, and you can make it happen. I vastly encourage you to read this novel, and once you do I promise you will unquestionably love it.