As he enters his fifth year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, 15-year-old Harry Potter is growing up.  In addition to experiencing the typical woes of a young man his age and embarking on his first romantic relationship with a fellow student, Harry also faces his greatest opposition yet in "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix," the fifth installment of J.K. Rowling's series.<br />This book is the darkest novel in the series thus far, and it opens with Harry increasingly angry and frustrated with his life.  He resents that he has been sent back to live with his abysmal Muggle relatives, who have come to resent Harry more than they ever have before.  Harry is also anxiously awaiting news from his friends from the magical world about the status of Lord Voldemort, the evil dark wizard restored to life at the end of "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.<br />Harry soon finds himself at the center of a vicious defamation campaign headed by the Ministry of Magic, which is determined to prove that rumors about the Dark Lord returning are false.  The Order of the Phoenix, a group of witches and wizards who are trying to show the Ministry that Voldemort has indeed returned, helps Harry in his time of need and also vows to bring Voldemort's power to an end.<br />The challenges of being a fifth-year student at Hogwarts also complicate Harry's life in book five.  He finally has a chance to explore his romantic feelings for Cho Chang, but given the tragic events that occurred at the end of "Goblet of Fire," Harry's first real relationship with a girl hits some major bumps along the way.  All of the fifth-year students are busy preparing to take their Ordinary Wizarding Levels at the end of the year, and the stress of studying, topped off with the hormonal and emotional changes that Harry is experiencing, result in his toughest year yet.<br />In addition to many familiar characters, Rowling introduces many new characters in book five.  Harry finally gets to know the real Mad-Eye Moody, who has recovered from Voldemort's stunning spell and is now one of the key members of the Order.  In addition, Harry meets Nymphadora Tonks, a klutzy and outgoing Metamorphusmagus/Auror.  Another new face is Kreacher, a merciless old house elf who does not appreciate what the Order is trying to do, and Dolores Umbridge, the most belligerent Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher that Hogwarts has ever had.  Earlier characters whom readers will likely be surprised to see again also make appearances.  As becomes obvious in book five, many of the characters in Harry's life are connected in ways he never imagined.<br />"Phoenix" is different from the other books in the series in several ways.  Harry is definitely growing up, and he's beginning to resent the fact that his life has been soured in so many ways.  For most of the book, Harry feels as if the people he has come to rely on the most aren't being completely honest with him. That infuriates Harry to no end.  After all, it was Harry who managed to escape from Voldemort's grasp at the end of book four, so why won't anyone tell him what the Dark Lord is up to now?<br />In book five, Harry is quick to anger and doesn't hesitate before lashing out at anyone who has wronged him in some way.  His anger is definitely justified, however, (who can blame the kid for being upset about the murder of his parents, the unkindness of his only living relatives, and the fact that Lord Voldemort seems as if he will stop at nothing until Harry is dead?) and he is still just as likeable and sympathetic a character as ever.<br />The end of the novel fits the same formula of Rowling's other novels: there is a lengthy battle from which Harry manages to escape, but a beloved character meets an untimely end.  The scene is terribly sad, and as a result of what happens, one of Harry's elders decides to reveal the truth about Harry's destiny.  Although this new information is something that has always been implied, it is finally declared outright and paves the way for the challenges that Harry will undoubtedly face in the final two novels of the series.<br />Since this is the longest book in the series so far, it also drags a bit in spots, especially toward the middle when the story revolves around Harry's time at school. The major action in the story takes place in the last fifty pages or so.  A formula typical of all Rowling's books and therefore something of a letdown, since fans know the sequence of events by heart.<br />However, book five is the most emotional book in the series so far, as Rowling paves the way for the final two books.  Harry's relationships with other people are becoming increasingly complicated, and this book rises above its predecessors in terms of maturation and character development.  While the Harry Potter series is still appropriate for kids, it's difficult to classify "Phoenix" as a children's book, since it explores themes that are much darker than any depicted in the first four books.  Harry and his friends are getting older, and their interests are evolving.  Also, since Voldemort is continuing to gain power, his confrontations with people have become increasingly violent, which means that small children might find some things in the book frightening.  However, older readers are likely to declare this as Rowling's best work to date.<br />At the end of the book, a second war against Voldemort and his Death Eaters appears imminent.  There are plenty of questions that need to be answered, and an inevitable battle looms on the horizon, but it's unlikely that it will take place before book seven.<br />The only thing we can be sure of at this point is that as soon as readers finish this book, they'll start clamoring for book six.