When completing Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince (book six) so long ago, I remember questioning whether everything could possibly be wrapped up in one more volume.  I was trying to determine if I had officially heard there would be but seven volumes or whether that was just a widely held but unconfirmed belief based on the wizard academy's duration (seven years).  I felt the manner in which book six ended could have opened the door to several more volumes.  If there was to be one last volume, I could not fathom how JK Rowling would finish the Harry Potter saga in a tidy fashion.<br /><br />Shows what I know.  Book seven, The Deathly Hallows, has been confirmed as the final book (at least for now) and it concluded in a most satisfactory fashion.  Questions were resolved.  Back stories were fleshed out and fully informed.  And of course the climactic showdown foreshadowed and expected from the beginning satisfactorily occurred and concluded.<br /><br />Book seven was not perfect in my opinion, but it did end near perfectly.  I felt the pacing was somewhat uneven at times.  There seemed to be so much yet to resolve while whole new mysteries were heaped on additionally.  Yet by the end, each of these issues was resolved believably if not evenly.  As the series of books progressed I became increasingly frustrated with the characters.  Many of their actions just did not seem reasonable.  I found it increasingly hard to justify their behaviors with any rationale.  Perhaps this is an unfair complaint given that not everyone enjoys similar reasoning ability and some are more dominated by emotion than reason, etc.  But it was frustrating and seemed too contrived at times.  Book five (The Order of the Phoenix) seemed terribly unbelievable to me in this way (in addition to the adult disbelief and misbehavior) and I did not enjoy it much.  Book six was much better but was still tainted in a similar fashion.  Finally, book seven also suffered similarly, but it was so full of action and drama that it was not as glaring.  And more importantly, as I have already alluded to, its ending was so well done I could overlook the rest.  The final few chapters were simply magnificent.  I was sad, angry, anxious, etc.  The book really tapped into my emotions incredibly well.  JK Rowling demonstrated a marvelous adeptness at manipulating the situation for greatest emotional impact.<br /><br />Wonderful knowledge is gained about both Snape and Dumbledore.  Both of their histories are brought to life.  Is one or the other good or bad?  We are not necessarily told what to think, but we are finally granted full disclosure.  We fully see what we need to see to form our own conclusions.  The veils are removed, and I am terribly thankful they were.  Many other authors have fallen far short of Rowling's achievement in satisfactorily concluding a lengthy series.  Often questions are unanswered or resolutions are too contrived.  This ending, however, seemed to flow naturally.<br /><br />JK Rowling created a wonderful world, brimming with possibility and imagination.  The saga of Harry Potter was truly a gift of imagination.  Even if the books weren't perfect, the world was vividly and lovingly presented.  It was a great place to escape to for periods of time.  It is sad to see it go.  But if it must go, at least it goes in a very tidy and satisfying manner.