I was a little late to the Harry Potter craze, having been raised to believe that this book was the work of the Devil and never having the time to read seven extra books during college.  However, after being assigned to read this book in a young adult literature class at the age of twenty-five, I was hooked.  The plot is imaginative, the characters are interesting and fully developed, and the book is well written yet simple enough for children to enjoy.  After finishing the class, I continued to read the other six books, which are equally amazing.<br /><br />To Christian parents:  I am a Christian too, and it is true that the book is full of magic and sorcery.  Harry Potter and his friends do go to the Hogwart's School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, after all.  Many people rationalize reading this book by saying that the main point of the series is not the witchcraft but the life lessons on perseverance, patience, and other positive qualities that Harry and his friends must learn to defeat the dark forces who threaten the Muggle world.  This is very true, and I think that the characters of Harry, Ron, Hermione, and the others would make positive literary role models for children.  However, it is difficult to ignore the large amount of magic that goes on in the book.  In the first few books, it's very lighthearted:  the kids ride on brooms to play quidditch, they make things disappear and reappear, and they play other tricks on each other, but as the series progresses, the tone of the books becomes darker, and much more evil &#34;black magic&#34; is used by evil characters.  Having read the series as an adult, I was able to enjoy the positive messages and adventurous spirit of the books while ignoring the undercurrent of dark magic, but I feel that some of the scenes, especially in the later books, would be disturbing to young children who cannot tell the difference between fantasy and reality.  My final verdict is that these books are not appropriate for young children unless you read and discuss them with your child; they are better suited for teens and young adults.