Harry Potter has never had an easy life, but as he turns seventeen he faces challenges that would be daunting for an adult, never mind a teenager. Voldemort is on the loose and Harry knows that either he has to kill Voldemort and live the rest of his life knowing he is a murderer or Voldemort will kill him himself. But before he faces Voldemort, he must do the task assigned to him by Dumbledore, which is to find and destroy the remaining Horcruxes that contain pieces of Voldemort's soul. This is not an easy task since not only does Harry not know where the Horcruxes are (or even what some of them are hidden in) but also Voldemort and his Death Eaters are dogging Harry's every move. As Harry searches for the Horcruxes, he will uncover many secrets and learn that not only Dumbledore but also Snape weren't who he thought they were and had many layers to their personalities. The danger filled journey will test his friendship with Ron and Hermione and the courage of everyone involved.<br /><br />"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" is the wonderful last book in a wonderful series. Harry's struggle to do the right thing, whether to go after the Horcruxes or Deathly Hallows, is very believable, as is his struggle to reconcile the Dumbledore he thought he knew with the man Dumbledore really was. There are some slow moments - Harry and friends seem to aimlessly move from hiding spot to hiding spot with no goal in mind and the camping bits go on too long - but there are plenty of exciting moments to make up for all the slow bits, including several battle scenes and close encounters with Voldemort. What amazed me about the series is how well all seven books were thought out and how things that seemed relevant to only the particular book they appeared in or not that important at all (for example: why Dumbledore had the invisibility cloak belonging to Harry's father; Harry's first trip to Gringotts; Dumbledore's brother; and Sirius's motorcycle) all factor into this last book. The final confrontation between Harry and Voldemort more than lives up to readers expectations and J. K. Rowling does a great job in describing what is not only a physical but verbal battle. While the book has its share of violence, death, and sadness, there is also some humor in the book including Luna's father and a scene between Ron and Hermione in the middle of the battle. Characters, Neville especially, have developed nicely through the series and show their true worth in the heat of battle. While the final epilogue sums up a lot of things, it does leave some questions unanswered that will have readers debating long after finished the book.<br /><br />Well done!