Harry Potter fans will be once again delighted with Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, JK Rowling's fourth book about the adventurous young wizard, Harry Potter. This particular book continues into Harry's fourth school year at Hogwarts, a wizarding school for young wizards and witches.  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire takes the reader to the Triwizard Tournament, a dangerous event with dragons, mazes and other surprises. An underage Harry is entered in the contest and must compete with other wizards from rival schools. Harry ends up meeting his old enemy &quot;you know who&quot; in a terrifying dual of wands and magic.  What makes this book best selling is the author's imaginative and inventive style - her fascinating characters, made-up vocabulary, and clever inventions. One really neat character is Hagrid who was kicked out of Hogworts and now lives on the edge of the school. Harry and his friends visit Hagrid and find out all sorts of interesting facts about the school including teacher rivalries, old friends, and other mysterious trivia.  JK Rowling displays her creativity with her fun invented words. Muggle is one of the coolest word because it is what we are, humans. Some other fun to say words are Hufflepuff, Slytherin, Gryffindor, and Ravenclaw, which are the names of the rival dorms at Hogwarts.  Another word that has a great name and meaning is Omniocular, an invention in which  &quot;you can replay action ... slow everything down ... and they flush up a play-by-play breakdown if you need it&quot;(93). These wizard-like binoculars are used to watch Quidditch games (wizard's rugby).  Rowling's imagination goes on and on with other magical inventions including flags that sing songs, invisibility coats, dragons, and magical candy.  Along with the good vs. evil theme seen in previous Harry Potter books, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire has a theme of loyalty. Harry, Hermione, and Ron's friendship was one of loyalty. For example when Hermione and Ron got into a fight, Harry helped them become friends again. Harry's relationship with the house elves was also a loyal one. Harry offered to reward their service of cooking and cleaning with pay, but they didn't believe that house elves should be paid. Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire is one of those rare books that any muggle would enjoy! Rowling's creativity with her characters, made-up vocabulary, and inventions would appeal to readers of all ages. From flying broomsticks to portkey transportation this book is the way to go.