Having just reread the entire Harry Potter series in preparation for Book Six, it seems like the time is now right for me to finally review Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.  To call the book fantastic is a gross understatement.  Without doubt, it is the most absorbing novel I've ever read - even on multiple readings.  It may be well over 800 pages, but it's still a quick read.  I'm betting most fans read this book in two days or less - you just can't put it down.  There were times when I wanted to throw it at something, though, just because so many awful things happen to these beloved characters over the course of Harry's fifth and - by far - most trying year at Hogwarts.  You sit there enraged, struggling to believe such awful events can possibly be happening, and you're quite powerless to do anything about it - except plow on, hoping for a proverbial break in the clouds.  At other times, I wanted to put down the book and cheer - especially for Fred and George and Professor McGonagall.  Heck, even Peeves had me cheering in this one.<br /><br />They're not lying when they call this a coming-of-age story.  Fifteen is a tough age for anyone, a sort of purgatory between childhood and adulthood, but for Harry it's uniquely unbearable.  He's just seen Cedric Diggory killed and barely escaped from a fully restored Lord Voldemort, and what happens?  He goes right into a wizarding deprivation tank on Privet Drive, with absolutely no word for weeks on end about what is going on.  Then Dementors attack him, and he's suddenly facing expulsion and a hearing before a council of grand wizards.  Once he is reunited with his friends and godfather, the adults still keep him in the dark - and he blows up, as well he should.  Knowing almost nothing about what the newly restored Order of the Phoenix is actually doing, he's then packed off to Hogwarts - where he is almost completely ignored by Professor Dumbledore.  The most unbelievable (and enraging) thing about all of this is the fact that Cornelius Fudge, the git running the Ministry of Magic, refuses to believe Voldemort has returned, and the Daily Prophet devotes the whole year to stories about the unbalanced, unstable Harry Potter and his attention-seeking claims.  Then, as if things couldn't get any worse, you have the arrival of Dolores Umbrage - easily the most hateful, infuriating character of the series - as Professor of Defense Against the Dark Arts and - in short order - High Inquisitor of Hogwarts.  Well, I won't go through the whole list, but Harry is really on his own more than ever this year - facing the largest obstacles imaginable.<br /><br />When I first read this novel, I felt that Harry was really just a little bit on the mean side during this fifth year at Hogwarts.  A second read shows me that I was wrong, however.  Harry is a teenager, in many ways a normal teenager despite his unique situation.  The whole relationship thing with Cho Chang, for example, is perfectly envisioned.  And the young man has a right to be mad - the fact that he even survived Hogwarts this year, let alone another encounter with Lord Voldemort, is darned impressive.  We really learned a lot about all of the characters in this book - Snape, in particular.  Good old Ron finally gets a few moments in the sun of his own, Neville emerges as a crucial character to the whole saga, and Hermione (my favorite character) is still her delightful self - except even more so.  And I love Luna Lovegood.<br /><br />I didn't think any book could be as good as The Goblet of Fire.  Now, I don't see how any book could be as good as Order of the Phoenix.  Knowing J.K. Rowling, though, I expect the best is yet to come.