I've been caught up in the wizarding world of Harry Potter since Year 1, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.  I was as eager and awestruck as Harry in discovering the magical world of J. K. Rowling's imagination.  But as the wizarding world has become more mundane to Harry over the past 5 years the focus has gradually shifted away from the delights of discovery to Harry's growing desire to find his ultimate place within the world of wizards.  This change of focus has not made the Harry Potter series any less compelling for me.  I was just as caught up in Harry's travails during his 5th year as the adventures of his 1st.<br />The main thrust this time is Harry's battle of wills with Professor Dolores Umbridge, the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher who is malevolent even beyond Snape.  For where Snape has spent the book series trapped between his hatred of Harry and his need to protect him from Lord Voldemort, Professor Umbridge has a free hand to sadistically punish Harry and try to change the very essence of Hogwarts.  While I wasn't really satisfied with the resolution of the Harry vs. Umbridge battle, it's impossible to be too critical without knowing what might happen in books six and seven because, as all readers of Rowling know, characters have a way of reappearing in new ways.  I do feel that it occupied too much of the book however.  It gave a face to much of Harry's anger and resentment, but I didn't see any growth in Harry because of his encounters with Umbridge.<br />One sub-plot where I would have preferred more development and depth, however, was in Harry's relationship with Cho Chang.  I think it would have held up as a larger part of the story.  Cho has never really been developed as a character.  She's just been an object of infatuation for Harry.  Unfortunately, we don't really learn anymore about who she is in Year 5, even in the face of a blossoming romance.  (And speaking as a former 15-year old boy, I think that Cho would have been on Harry's mind more than Rowling allows, even in the face of possible expulsion and death.)<br />The biggest disappointment for me is that the Harry vs. Lord Voldemort plot that is driving the 7-book series plays a minor role in Year 5.  After the rebirth of Lord Voldemort and the return of the Death Eaters at the end of Year 4, I expected the battle between good and evil to be joined early in Year 5.  But if you expect that in Year 5, you've got about 35 chapters of filler to deal with.  There is the obligatory showdown scene, and Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix finally accelerates Harry toward what must be his ultimate showdown with Lord Voldemort in Year 7.<br />Although Harry learns important new facts this year, I think he has shown greater personal growth and maturity in his previous years.<br />There is more British slang in this book than the previous Scholastic releases.  I'm glad they didn't try to Americanize everything, but I did find it useful to find a British slang web site to use as a reference.  One word of caution, however, the first site I found was replete with vulgar slang.<br />I've read the other Harry Potter books at least twice each and I'm sure that I'll read this one again.  My view of the book may change, the way I sometimes appreciate a CD more each time I listen to it.  Has anyone started the countdown for Year 6 yet?