A few facts:  I'm 40 years old.  Director of Direct Marketing for a major business-to-business advertising agency.  Hold a Master's degree in Communications.  Am a muggle.  And, I'm not ashamed to admit, was totally  captivated (who says they're just for kids?) by the audio CD edition of  Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, the fourth installment in the  world-famous series by J.K. Rowling.  A few opinions:  I have all three of  the previous books on CD and loved every minute of them.  In fact, there  were times when I didn't want to stop driving and get out of my car (even  when I arrived at my destination!) because I was so engrossed in the  stories.  But if I thought British performer Jim Dale's reading was amazing  before, I was doubly impressed with him this time around.  As you know,  Goblet of Fire is over twice the size of the other books in the series -- a  total of 17 unabridged CDs, some 20 hours!  Plus, there are dozens of new  characters, some of whom are from foreign lands, and some extremely  gripping action scenes.  Yet, Dale seamlessly switched from character to  character, deftly handling all the accents, all the action...all the while  capturing every emotional nuance of Rowling's words.  A less gifted reader  wouldn't have been able to pull it off and surely would have left the  listener scratching his head wondering who's saying and doing what to whom.  Dale must be part wizard himself!  For some reason, I found the first few  chapters (maybe even the first few CDs) slow going.  But the story picked  up steam and by the last 4-5 CDs I literally found myself sitting in  parking lots, with the car's CD player on, not wanting to walk away from  what was happening.  I was riveted.  If you've never heard Jim Dale read a  Harry Potter book before, you don't know what you're missing.  Nothing  brings the books to life like hearing the characters speaking.  And nothing  makes the drive to and from work more enjoyable.  My favorite  characterizations are Dumbledore, Snape, Malfoy, Hagrid, McGonnagal and, of  course, Harry -- but Dale is very adept at making ALL of Rowling's  characters leap off the pages.  The combination of Rowling's imaginative  words and Dale's superb reading make for a spellbinding experience.  (By  the way, if you're thinking of trying the audio version of the Harry Potter  books, you might want to start with something other than the massive Goblet  of Fire.  Goblet is a deep, sometimes dark, often complex and inarguably  lengthy book that will require a more substantial commitment of time and  attention than the other books in the series.  That's not a bad thing,  however.  Just be forewarned.)