After pulling an all-nighter to complete the first 500 pages, I was afraid picking it up again in the cold light of day would prove disappointing.  Not so.  This is by far the best H.P. yet. J.K. Rowling manages to believably intertwine the adolescent mood swings in the teen-aged characters with the corresponding exasperation and patience of the adults while telling an intricate tale of revenge, deceit and injustice.  From the first three pages in which Harry, saving his dispicable cousin from the dementors, causes himself most unpleasant consequences, through the reappearance of several characters from earlier books, the introduction of the mysterious and strangely familiar Order of the Phoenix, really horrible conditions at Hogwarts culminating in a hilarious total breakdown of discipline, a breathtaking battle in the depths of the Minstry of Magic, tragedy and grief, not to mention the Harryotypical narrow escapes--this is one destined for the classics.  Harry is a true hero--perservering in the face of overwhelming disappointment, disillusionment, guilt and grief--not to mention confusion over his first romantic encounter with a girl, struggling to balance his school obligations with the rather hectic events in the outside world surrounding Voldemort's return, and his changing relationships with his friends Ron and Hermione.  The introduction of several new characters, notably Dolores Umbridge (wouldn't Prunella Scales be great in the part?) enhance the action in J.K. Rowling's very special character-driven way.  Harry is beginning to show verge-of-adulthood traits such as guilt, anger and compassion for the underdog, and, when confronted with evidence that things and people are not always as they seem, handles these confusing and magical situations as any young adult would.  Revelations about his past and his parents are both painful and surprising, but, after the initial upset, Harry regroups and carries on.  (Can you tell, I'm trying very hard not to give the plot away?) Yes, a main character dies, and no, it's probably not who you think.  It does have a profound impact on the story and on Harry, and this will undoubtedly reverberate in the books to come.  Suffice it to say, some of the recurring characters have newly revealed motivations.  This book is everything we've come to expect from Harry Potter; a page-turning story; unforgettable characters--both good and those we love to hate--great tragic and comic scenes AND there is a new depth to both characters and story.  This should appeal to everyone.  J.K. Rowling--You go girl!!