And of course, in our society, if you can't read, you're screwed.  My nephew has long had problems reading, but, with some better education he has taken to these books, and LOVES them! I mean, for an almost-teen to tackle a 400 page book for a book report instead of something much smaller speaks well of this writer's ability to capture attention and write a compelling, meaningful, book.  And I as an adult (an engineer and a minister) have loved all four books! This is genius writing at it's best. Reminds me a lot of the Rocky and Bullwinkle Show, or the Warner Brothers Cartoons, or Shakespeare - for the simpler minds, there's a wealth of entertainment and easy readability, and for the adults/more advanced minds, there's another level of humor and literary wonderfulness.<br />Although choosing a &quot;favorite&quot; from the four books now in print is very difficult (they are all easily 5 stars), I would have to say that this was my second favorite, losing out to Book 4. But that's kind of like saying I prefer the filet mignon with 1.5 pound lobster over the prime rib with french onion soup and chocolate cheese cake for dessert. See what I mean?<br />Do you have a child? Do you have a child within you? THEN READ THIS BOOK! I have read hundreds, and I mean hundreds, of childrens books and teen novels, and I think the Harry Potter books have everything a child wants - a hero who's &quot;not mainstream&quot;, who has some secret powers he didn't know he had, who faces danger bravely but with fear, and who wins - but who wins not by destroying an enemy, but by overcoming a situation.<br />And for you bizarro fundamentalist Christians who think these books are evil - please read your Bibles, stop listening to your ministers, find a church with intelligent people who actually understand the Gospel, and leave J.K. Rowling alone.  These books exemplify the Christian life in a way that puts them in a category above most children's writing.  I mean, please - if you want to teach moral, ethical behavior, these are wonderful books for it. And remember - I'm a minister, trained in this stuff, so I know what I'm talking about.  These books are not evil, they do not promote evil, they do not affirm evil, they do not glorfy evil. On the contrary, they glorify self-sacrifice, dedication and honesty to friends, honesty in the face of evil, courage in the face of evil, and most importantly, these books show our children (and us adults) how to face our fears with bravery, even while our knees are knocking and we wish drastically we didn't have to face it.  We can learn a lot from little Harry Potter, and I find it a shame that so-called Christians have decided to wage some kind of bizarre illiterate crusade against these books.