“I solemnly sear that I am up to no good.” (ch. 10 pg. 192)<br />Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is the third book in the Harry Potter series. It follows Harry and his friends through the excitement that is their third year at Hogwarts. In the start of the book, we find Harry doing his homework by flashlight under his bed sheets- as any proof of his time at that wizarding school is forbidden by the Drusley’s. It’s Harry’s birthday and for the first time in his life, he receives birthday cards and presents from his friends Hermione, Ron, and Hagrid. During a visit from Aunt Marge, Vernon and Harry make a deal, if he can keep Hogwarts a secret, Vernon will sign Harry’s permission slip to visit Hogsmead on the weekends. Unfortunately that goes out the window when Marge insults Harry’s family and he accidentally inflates her, whoops. The Knight Bus then picks up Harry after he leaves the house suddenly, but not after seeing something peculiar in the bushes…<br /> The main conflict of this novel is the fact that escaped prisoner Sirius Black is on the loose and dangerous. Dementors have made Hogwarts their home for the year and even made a little pit stop on the Hogwarts Express to make sure Sirius Black wasn’t aboard. While they didn’t find the prisoner on the train, they did find Harry, because of the sorrow and death he has already witnessed the dementors were drawn to him. The mysterious person (who we find out to be the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher) is at the ready to produce a Patronus charm, which is used to ward of dementors with a happy memory.<br />The school year starts and the dementors are not respecting the boundaries that Dumbledore has put into place. They even disrupt a Quidditch match and send Harry flying off of his broom and his Nimbus 2000 into the Whomping Willow. Harry get used to his new classes and the frequent disappearance and reappearance of Hermione as she seems to be taking more class than any average witch or wizard can handle. Third year is when students start taking Divination and it’s not Harry’s favorite subject to say the least. Professor Trelawney often tells Harry he is in grave danger after finding the Grim in his cup, and she becomes overcome with a prophecy when they are alone in the classroom. &#34;It will happen tonight. The Dark Lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned by his followers. His servant has been chained these twelve years. Tonight, before midnight, the servant will break free and set out to rejoin his master. The Dark Lord will rise again with his servant's aid, greater and more terrible than ever before. Tonight... before midnight... the servant... will set out... to rejoin... his master...&#34; (ch.16 pg.324)<br />The story concludes with Harry, Ron and Hermione using Hermione’s Time Turner to not only save Hagrid’s friend Buckbeak, but also Harry’s innocent godfather Sirius Black, who has spent the last 12 years in Azkaban for a crime he did not commit. With the help of their new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher (who is also a werewolf!) Remus Lupin; Harry finds out more about his parents past and how their secret keeper and friend Peter Pettigrew betrayed them.<br />This is easily my favorite Harry Potter book out of the seven. I’d give it ten out of five stars if I could. It introduced me to my favorite character of the series (Remus Lupin) and helped to continue the story of Harry Potter and helped Harry find out more about his parents before they died. He also was reconnected with his godfather and James’ best friend Sirius Black.<br /> “Mischief Managed”  (Ch, 10 pg, 194)