In broad outline HARRY POTTER AND THE PRISONER OF AZKABAN follows the pattern of the previous two books: a magical adventure yarn about the young eponymous wizard told within the framework of another year at the English wizarding boarding school Hogwarts, the beginning and ending of the story in the company of Harry's insufferable muggle (regular people) relatives, the Dursleys.  Book Number Three is, in the richness of its plot and its psychological depth, more intriguing than its predecessors.  That it's not very nuanced reminds you that this is a children's tale, but it comes very close to standing on its own as an adult book as well.  It's a dark story: more than ever before Harry has to face the murder of his parents--even hearing time and again the screams of his mother--and though this is unsettling, J.K. Rowling so deftly writes these scenes with children in mind that, for most pre-teen readers, it will not be unbearable.  This is, perhaps, in part because Harry has by now become a beloved and trusted friend to young readers: they're willing to stand by him, as with Harry's bosom friends Hermione and Ron, through the many trials and occasional triumphs of Harry's life.<br /><br />The main thrust of the story follows the (previously unheard of) escape of a prisoner from the dreaded dungeon Azkaban.  This escapee, a wizard and erstwhile best friend of the Potters named Sirius Black, is being hunted down by both muggle and wizarding worlds as a murderer.  Indeed, it is widely believed in the latter sphere that not only had Sirius betrayed his friends, Harry's parents, to die, he is looking to murder Harry as well.  Though containing interrelated subplots including involving a condemned hippogriff, a new power that Hermione is given, and, of course, the game of quidditch, this novel is principally concerned with the stalking of Harry Potter.  Meanwhile, Harry continues to feel the cold venom of the Hogwarts Potions Professor Snape, and is newly befriended and aided by the latest Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Lupin.<br /><br />J.K. Rowling seems to have her material well in hand with this entry in the Harry Potter saga.  The previous two books, though charming and thoroughly likeable, seemed at times just a bit wooden.  The writing in this volume is punchier; the story moves along swiftly.  Just swiftly enough, in fact, to keep up, most of the time, the reader's necessary suspension of disbelief--only once in a while does the story give the reader pause to wonder, if only Sirius had been a somewhat better communicator, wouldn't a lot of the novel's problems have been avoided?  Then again, that's life.  All round, a decently written story that'll enthrall young readers and captivate adults as well.