As we come to the end of  this unique world of fantasy which JK Rowling created, kudos must be given to Jim Dale, who from the first book made every character come alive with a distinctive voice and personality. I have read the books, but for me, listening to the CD's of Jim Dale's narration made the experience fully real. He created little children, old women, giants, monsters, centaurs, and the hissing voice of the snakelike villain. Each voice so distinctive we came to recognize it instantly.<br />As for the this the final book in the series:<br />This is the last book in a seven book series that reads as one long fabulous story, a fantasy classic for all ages. It stands with JRR Tolkien's "Lord of the Rings" in that it started out as a children's book: "The Hobbit" in Tolkien's case; "The Sorcerer's Stone" in Rowling's case, and both moved on quickly, as if of their own volition, to proceed away from a simple child's story and become a real world in fact, with humor, tragedy, love, and loss and a great overwhelming evil that the decent people are required to fight in order to keep their self-respect and honor. In each case, the sagas are works that can be appreciated by every age. The Harry Potter series gives us characters as real as any people we have known. They have faults and frailties, we have seen them grow and mature before our eyes through the series from childhood to late adolescence with all that entails, and we have come to really care for them. Though surrounded by magic, by potions, by fantastic animals, and unknown species, the main characters are deeply human. The world they live in is similar to our own, but has the added ingredient of magic, which all the major characters can use. However for much of the story magic is a sideline---very important, discussed and used continually--- but not as important as those very human qualities of friendship, love and trust which actually pull the characters through their losses, to fight their battles, and get them through the on-going great battle with almost overwhelming evil. The human qualities inevitably trump the magical ones in this world: The protective spell of a mother's love...sacrificing oneself for one's friends...those qualities and others are more powerful than spells, potions and wand-work. This, the final book is an excellent entry to the series. Every thread is tied up, and a surprising new subplot is introduced. There is much fighting and death, but it is for a cause well worth fighting for, which mirrors events of our times, and no death is for shock value or the wantoness of blood, gore and pain. The losses suffered by the good people in these last two books have been enormous, yet, again, suffered meaningfully for that great cause, and always appropriate and always mourned. As the book ends, one feels that this world exists and will continue. The work which is the seven part series will stand, I think, in the fantasy literature genre as a classic to be read and remembered. The word "heart" is used frequently, and "heart" is at the center of this world: love, friendship and self-sacrifice are themes repeated over and over, and are the touchstones of this world and what make it special. No recent great work has so unashamedly been so clear on that point, and that is what has drawn so many to it.