I got into the Harry Potter books about two years ago. I read them because I work at a library and wanted to see what the big deal was...and to give me something else to talk to my patrons about! I was surprised how much I loved the first four books....it took me about 10 to 11 days to read them all! What J.K. Rowling does, she does extremely well...all of the Harry Potter books combine fantasy and wizardry with suspense, action and mystery. She creates fascinating and likable..and very evil...characters...her books are very fast paced and tough to put down...and she makes it all look so easy!<br />  I had the priviledge to read aloud the first chapter of "The Order of the Phoenix" in front of a group of kids and their parents on the day that the book came out and I had an absolute blast doing it!<br /><br />  The book gets off to a very fast and exciting start, like J.K. Rowling is saying, "I'M BAACK!" The book starts out in Privot Drive, where Harry is staying with his Uncle Vernon and his Aunt Petunia and mean, fat Dudley. Harry and Dudley are attacked by a pair of Dementors, which Harry wards off. His Uncle and Aunt think Harry attacked Dudley..of course....until Harry tells them about the Dementors...which leads to Aunt Petunia dropping a little bombshell of her own( which I won't tell you the specifics of; it's one of the books most pleasant surprises!). Harry gets into trouble for using magic, which leads to a hearing...then he's off to Hogwarts again, for maybe his toughest year yet.<br />  It was nice to be reintroduced to all of the characters again, like Hermione, Ron Weasley and his brothers, Hagrid, Dumbledore, Snape, Malfoy, etc... Harry has to deal with more frustration than ever before...and he blows up and gets angry more in this book than ever before...and it's easy to see why! Dumbledore, for some unknown reason, won't look at him, he has a new teacher, Ms. Umbridge, whose sole purpose seems to be to make life a living heck for Harry. He gets a crush on a girl and nobody seems to believe him about Lord Voldemort coming back. He also keeps having nightmares about walking down a long, dark corridor.<br />  The book is 870 pages long and some people have complained that it is too long. I'm absolutely fine with it's length, because the book is about as fascinating as the others and Rowling packs alot of story in it and takes the time to develop her characters even more. It is rather dark in tone and maybe not as pleasant as some of the others, for this is partly about Potter growing up and experiencing the joys and pains of being a teenager. It's also about friendship and loyalty. It's about alot of things and it's about all of them very well!<br />  I eagerly await the next book!