I'll admit it...  I am one of those adults who got hooked on Harry Potter, even without any children as an excuse.  I bought my niece the first three books for Christmas, and counted down the days until this release with her.  I was shocked by the length of the book when it arrived...  I wondered if  there was really so much to be said that it could fill all those pages.  The second I started reading, though, I knew the answer was YES!<br />This  book is by far the most complex and scary of the Harry Potter books thus  far.  Harry is entering his fourth year of school, and in addition to  learning more complex spells, Harry is also growing personally, and we see  him maturing throughout the book.  I loved the scene with his first  dance...  it brought back so many memories of my own first dances.<br />The  length of the book is also a sign of the maturing plot...  the first 100 or  so pages pass before Harry even returns to Hogwarts!  But, the story is  enthralling from page one, and the new characters are developped very  nicely during this section.  Once Harry returns to school, the action grows  ever deeper... he learns new, more dangerous spells, and we realize how  much he has learned in his previous three years at school.  The action in  this book builds up slowly; Harry knows that somone is out there, but he's  not sure who, or why.  And so, the best defense is to keep on learning, and  to keep his eyes open, studying all those around him.  The secrets will be  revealed soon enough...<br />If I had to complain about anything in this  book, it would be the way plots from the previous stories were entered into  it; at times it seemed that Rowling grew impatient with explaining what had  ocurred in the previous stories.  But since the books build upon each  other, some background was necessary.  I think the best preparation for  book 4 is to read the first three books, and then to jump in an enjoy this  newest offering...  I eagerly anticipate the remaining three books, and I  hope that Harry's personal development continues, and that the originality  that Rowling has shown in all the details of this series continue to shine  through.