When I heard about the first Harry Potter book I was prepared to dismiss it as an ill-informed parody and/or exploitation of occultism. Now, five volumes later, I am a devoted reader. This, volume five, was no exception. The excellent character development and magical atmosphere is strong as ever. These books are the perfect escape from the concerns of the day.<br />  Yet, Rowling has added a new element to this fifth book. Actually, it isn't new; it is more of a shift in emphasis. All of the previous books have contained valuable lessons about life, friendships, and the battle between light and darkness. This one, however, drives it home in a more mature manner. Many readers have called it "dark." I suppose that it is dark in the sense that it shows that good and noble institutions can be infiltrated and corrupted. A lot of people do not want to admit that possibility- especially to impressionable young readers. You see, characters like Cornelius Fudge and Professor Umbridge are all too common in the real world. They use once useful and beneficial organizations to gain their own selfish and twisted ends. It is the fortunate student who learns this lesson early while they are still in school and before they are blindsided by it in the outside world.<br />Yet, in spite of this darkness, or maybe because of it, an important lesson is taught. The lesson is this- when the system is corrupt, you can resist. You can form an underground resistance and fight it, if you know in your heart of hearts that you are on the side of justice, right, and good. No wonder more than a few schools, churches, and parents have a problem with these books, and this book in particular....<br />But perhaps far more frightening is the prospect that there may be something dark and unrecognized in yourself. It is this that young Harry must face and conquer. As these characters mature, so do the philosophical and moral issues that are covered. Personally, I cannot wait to get my hands on book six. You see, even an old wizard can learn a few new tricks.