I stood in line at midnight on July 21, 2007 to get this book.  I took my (then) 12-year-old daughter and her best friend home and we all began reading while sitting in my sunroom at 2:00 in the morning.  Over the next couple of days, I savored this book from beginning to end - putting it down if I wasn't fully concentrating on it since I didn't want to spoil the experience.  Just a few days ago I picked it up and re-read it in anticipation of the last movie coming out and I have to say I enjoyed the experience all over again.<br /><br />It's very difficult to review this book independently of the series since story threads and characters run throughout the series of seven books.  What I will say is that the entire series of books captured the imaginations of millions of fans for a reason.  The creativity and storytelling are hard to match especially in the world of YA fiction.  At the time of the publications, most of the YA literature was either too serious for its intended audience (winning lots of awards handed out by adults, read in the classrooms and largely disliked by the students themselves).  Over the years the material available to this age group has taken a decided turn for the worse particularly as it relates to young women/girls --- there are just too many books about girls behaving badly and making poor choices which are inconsistent with the values many of us want to instill in our daughters.  Harry Potter is (and was) a refreshing change from all of that.  It's good versus evil and brains (particularly Hermione) over brawn over and over again yet told so incredibly well that the lessons aren't even that noticeable.<br /><br />Books that will appeal to young readers as well as older ones, the final installment does the series proud.  I actually enjoyed it more the second time around as I was better able to notice the nuances versus just trying to find out what happened.  It was like a tapestry where the individual threads are all woven together to form a masterpiece which is most appreciated in its final form.<br /><br />A wonderful series, a wonderful book and thrilled I was able to go along for the ride!