Before the review I just want to say there will be no spoilers! J.K. Rowling has done it again with the seventh and final installment and what a conclusion it is! It's hard to review one book from a whole series, and while they do stand on their own, Harry's adventures must start with book one to get the full understanding. If you've loved the other books you're bound to love this one too, although reactions to the ending are mixed. I personally felt the ending was fitting. Remember, things aren't always what they seem to be at first! The seventh finds Harry, Hermione, and Ron away from Hogwarts for the majority of the book as they search for the horcruxes containing fragments of Voldermort's soul. Along the way, they are hunted by Death Eaters and Dementors and must find cunning ways to continue on their journey in a wizarding world threatened by the Dark Lord. At the same time, there are the questions of who really killed Dumbledore, why Harry has a connection with Voldermort, among other unexplained things. The storytelling is richer than ever before, the action and adventure is thrilling, and the huge cast of characters all play a big part in this final book. Expect the return of earlier characters, and of course the much talked about deaths. Prepare yourselves: there are more deaths than just the two main characters!!Plenty of secrets, magic, and mayhem are packed within the thick novel and one you start, you'll try desperately to stay up all night to get to the climatic end to the Harry Potter tale. It is the darkest of all the novels; it is the most violent. But like real life, the world isn't always the nicest place. What started as a childen's series has become a worldwide phenomenon and the latest subject matter and language hardly seems to belong on a kid's bookshelf. However, the series deserves credit for that very reason. Harry Potter wasn't your average, run of the mill series. It dealt with the issue of mortality and the eternal Good vs Evil scenario like no other adventure/fantasy/fairytale in history. Rowling does not gloss over that the world can be an ugly place, and that is precisely the kind of stuff kids should be reading. The series does no talk down to children or tries to protect them, but in Harry Potter they have found a hero to relate to always. We just better hope there are more series like this one for kids. In an age where videogames and cell phones rule, spellbinding kids into reading like this only happens once in a blue moon. We adults are glad we went along for the ride too.