So... now that the tumult and the shouting have largely died, what is left to say about this book?  Some readers who devoured the first four Potter books with delight had a problem with this one.  It's... well... different.  And some readers can't handle different.  What's happened to Harry?  Well, adolescence has happened, and in a big way.  He's fifteen now, midway between childhood and manhood; it's a difficult age for anyone, and probably more so if you've had a homicidal wizard on your case for the last four years.  Sure, Harry's moody, irritable, downright unbearable at times, who wouldn't be, if they were in his shoes?  And so we find Harry at the opening of HP5 in his usual midsummer funk, desperate to get back to Hogwarts and away from the loathsome Dursleys.  But this time, the dark forces after Harry are getting a tad impatient; they don't want to wait for him to return to Hogwarts before raising all kinds of cain; the dreaded Dementors attack Dudley right in his own backyard.  Driven off by Harry in the nick of time (one wonders why Harry didn't just let the Dementors get Dudley -- and how did Aunt Petunia know what the Dementors were anyway??), Harry finds himself hauled before the Ministry of Magic charged with violating the laws against underage wizardry.  But he's vindicated by Dumbledore's intervention in his behalf and spends the rest of the summer prior to his return to Hogwarts at the headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, an intrepid group of wizards out to thwart the evil machinations of Voldemort and his demonic adherents, meeting in the home of Harry's godfather Sirius Black.  We find out the fascinating tidbit that not only are most of the wizarding families related to each other by blood or marriage, but Black himself is related to -- of all people -- the evil Malfoy clan.<br /><br />We remember in Book Three that ditzy Professor of Divination Trelawney, in the middle of one of her interminable reading of the tea-leaves that looked like so much mush to Harry, Ron and Hermione (Divination wasn't one of their best subjects) all of a sudden went into a fit and made one of her few geniune predictions: that Voldemort would return "greater and more terrible than before".  She wasn't kidding.  He's back, all right, along with some of his most dangerous followers whom he's managed to spring from Azkaban, and they're all out for blood, Harry's especially.<br /><br />Some new faces are introduced in this volume; we meet Sirius's incredible mother, a vicious harpy who makes the Wicked Witch of the West look like a choir girl; a pink-haired punk rocker in the Order of the Phoenix named Nymphadora Tonks ("Wow! a FIREBOLT!?" she gasps when she sees Harry's broom; making us wonder if a Firebolt is the Lamborghini of broomsticks); a somewhat spacy fourth-year Hogwarts student named Luna Lovegood (no wonder she's called "Loony") who, weird though she appears, is the only person who seems to understand where Harry is coing from; and, overshadowing all, a pint-sized witch named Dolores Umbridge, oozing evil from every rotten pore, who usurps Dumbledore's position at Hogwarts as Headmistress and seems to be on a personal mission from Voldemort to do Harry and his friends in.  But Harry isn't going down without a fight; he and his friends form their own secret group to learn advanced defenses against the dark arts, which they will put to good use in the book's climactic conflict in the Minister of Magic when they come face to face with Voldemort and some of his more unsavory adherents.<br /><br />Besides having to deal with the noxious Umbridge (one really wants to tie a bag of firecrackers to this lady and watch her explode), Harry has enough on his plate just being fifteen with a crushing course load and a crush on Cho Chang, who turns out to be as shallow as she is pretty.  It's an endearing characteristic of Harry that, skilled as he is in wizardry, he doesn't have a clue about girls (asked by Ron to describe his first kiss with Cho, he says "wet"), and when Hermione tries to explain to him how Cho feels when he talks about other girls to her, she might as well be speaking Tagalog.  Harry also has to come to terms, like all adolescents, that at least one of his parents wasn't the paragon he imagined him to be; when he inadvertently blunders on Snape's worst memory, and discovers why Snape hated his father so much, we empathize with his shock at realizing that Potter Sr. was a world-class jerk at fifteen.  (Like most fifteen-year-olds, he grew out of it.)<br /><br />Rowling left a lot of threads hanging at the end of Book Five and this bothered a lot of readers, but it only left this one on tenterhooks waiting for Books Six and Seven.  We suspected from the beginning that it will finally come down to a fight to the finish between Harry and Voldemort, but all kinds of delightful subplots are pending in the meantime.  And some of her minor characters, especially Neville Longbottom, are developing in all kinds of interesting and unexpected ways.  Yes, someone close to Harry dies, and probably everyone and his brother knows who it is by now, but just in case there is someone out there who is still clueless, I'm not saying who.  Just let Rowling keep the magic coming through two more books, and after Book Seven is finally released, I will be among the multitudes clamoring for a sequel.  There just can't be a world without Harry Potter.