Harry Potter, a common household name, has enriched the lives of children (and adults) worldwide. The 5th book in a series has the most Chapters, and is the longest ever. It revolves around 15-year old Harry whose fifth year at Hogwarts proved to be the most difficult ever. JK Rowling introduced several new characters like Nymphadora Tonks (a notable character in the Order of the Phoenix), Luna Lovegood (a Hogwart student in Harry's class who shared central roles in the book), Dolores Umbridge (a Ministry of Magic official who thinks she could bite more than she could chew at Hogwarts). JK Rowling elaborated more on the family history of Sirius Black, which helped because it provided a rational for her to justify Sirius fate in the end. Rowling also introduced a family member Hagrid did not know existed. Harry's love affair with Cho Chang was given some emphasis, but as hormones come and go, it also dissipated in the end. Most remarkable, is the Weasley's family, who despite encountering troubles here and there, again and again, still managed to project themselves as very happy and loving individuals. Professor Snape, despite Harry's distrust in him and being a rather dark character in the book, somehow saves the day unbeknowngst to Harry. Finally, Dumbledore is definitely someone who always "saves" the day. Several instances in the book where Dumbledore proved to be Harry's ally, and there were times that Harry thought of him as distant, unconcerned person. Nevertheless, there are exciting Chapters where Dumbledore showed that he's not only the greatest Wizard there is, but that he is also human, who makes mistakes like everybody else. This was evident at the very end of the book. To summarize, the book has 38 Chapters with 870 pages, and chockfull of thrills, juvenile fun, action and excitement. New characters were introduced, while old characters evolved and one in particular moved on. The book in fact is an introduction to the coming war (so called "the second war"), where according to JK Rowling in her recent interview, may be the reason why we might not see Harry reach his adulthood. We will find out in the 6th and 7th book! This book is good value for your money.