This fifth volume of the Harry Potter saga was more than expected and it finally came out and it did not disappoint our expectations. This volume is interesting because it puts the first four volumes in a clear perspective as for Harry Potter's fate contained in a prophecy. This volume is interesting too because it shows how Harry Potter is able to summon around him a fair number of fellow students to fight against the Dark Lord, Lord Voldemort. This is a great optimistic sign about young people who are able to fight against evil, against what is bad in the world. Then the adventure of the fight between the good forces and Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters is full of unexpected developments and surprises. But the book is also interesting because it shows how a government in our countries is easily choosing the third way that is the negation of evil forces and the rebuffing of good forces who denounce these evil forces. This is a clear cut syndrom in our societies today with the choice of that middle of the way policy that leads nowhere except to victimizing those who are the only defense against evil. Here we can wonder if Rowling is not aiming at those benevolent governments who do not have the courage to fight against what is wrong in our societies and prefer giving aspirin against cancer or coughdrops against tuberculosis. The next interest of this book is that good is identified with being good and humane with your fellow humans, with accepting differences between people, be they physical, psychological or cultural and moral, with refusing discrimination, any discrimination in any form. The final interest of this book is the description of school life when the head and the teachers try to impose control of and limitations on students rights. It creates havoc and it leads to catastrophes, especially when some teachers try to retain some knowledge and to prevent students from getting the full picture of what they can and want to know. Luckily young people seem to be able to resist and to find other ways to get the knowledge they need and want.<br />Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Perpignan