Yesterday I finished Harry Potter and The Deathly Hallows.  It was bittersweet!  On one hand I tried to pace myself, as this is the last chapter of the boy wizard and his adventures.  I just couldn't put the thing down!  I am still amazed at how engaging this writer is.<br />My parents taught me to read at the tender age of three.  My Mom passed down her love of the written word and let me lay around with her at night and read my own little books. My Dad, despite the fact that he doesn't really get into reading books- read to me every night as a young child while my Mom made dinner.  I have read thousand of books over my lifetime, yet this unassuming children's tale has captivated me from the opening line of the very first book.  I didn't pick up the series until a few months before the first movie came out.  Oddly enough it was the artwork on a pack of Harry Potter edition Uno cards (which I now own) that attracted my interest.  I ordered the set and read the first four books in less than a week.  I have been like a rabid beast awaiting the final three books in the series.  Amazon was great, delivering the last installment by 1:00 on Saturday.<br /> The book was astounding, a feast for the imagination.  J.K. Rowling is truly a witch, her words are pure magic. The book takes us through the final battle for not only the Wizzarding World, but for the Muggle world as well.  The Characters are flawed and wonderfully human.  I am so emotionally invested in the lot of them that every death is like a physical blow.  How wonderful is it to be so in love with an imaginary world that you are a part of the adventure! I would never dream of giving away plot points, as this is a story that you need to follow to the end.  As the story unfolds, little wisps of information connect the books.  Suddenly, miraculously it all falls into place.  While certainly a heart wrenching tale, it is so full of heart and sacrifice that I can't help coming away from it feeling a bit of a better person for being a part of it.<br />J.K Rowling and her beautiful world of witches and wizards have changed our world.  An entire apathetic generation of children has been awakened to the magic of letting their imagination soar through reading.  I think that we are going to see many wonderful new worlds coming from this generation, and I can't wait.