Having grown up with great series like Nancy Drew, Anne of Green Gables, The Lord of The Rings, Piers Anthony's Xanth Books, The Chronicles of Narnia, and many more I feel like I have the insight to be able to compare and contrast this book with the best of them. I eagerly awaited book 7, warned all around me that no HP talk was aloud until I was finished. My husband also reads the books and we agreed that for this last one, we would buy one copy (which we purchased on Amazon, and it was delivered the day the book came out as promised) and he would read it to me so that both of us could find out what was happening at the same time.  I was certain that I would laugh, cry, and cheer and it did not disappoint. Other reviewers have had complaints that:<br />*"The book lulled, and felt bogged down at points especially when they were in the forest", and I don't agree with that. On the way through a journey, an adventure, not everything can be quickly paced and I think JK did a marvelous job showing us the passage of time while Ron, Harry, and Hermione had to keep moving.<br />*"There was no $ex" which blows my mind those readers expected any $exual scenes in this book, or any of the others at all. "Harry is 18, Boys that age have urges" and that is true, but boys that age aren't running for their lives, protecting loved ones, and carrying around a piece of an evil wizards soul. It's sick to expect anything more than honor and dedication from the characters in this series.<br />*"JK Left so many plot holes" Where? Did we read the same book, she left nothing a mystery, she made no mistakes, and she tied everything up. Including the Horcruxe/Hallows thing, she didn't just throw in the hallows for the 7th book, they have been there since the beginning.<br />*"JK doesn't tell us what happened to all the characters" Does she really have to? I would have been so turned off if at the end she just spent a chapter painting a lovely scenario for every single character use your imagination!<br />*"the epilogue was cheesy" And I can see how many think that, the book could have ended on Harry going back up to Gryffindor tower to go to bed, but JK chose to put the little happy ending in, I liked it, didn't love it, but I understood it.<br /><br />I invested a lot of emotion in this book, and I yelled lot of "YES" and "NO!" I held my breath, and I sighed with content. The Characters that die, some surprised me and some didn't, I wept, and sobbed, and snarfled into my pillow, I will forever mourn their loss. There were times I was so stressed out, knots in my throat that I feared for my mental health! In the end, when we put it down, I felt satisfied and relieved and more than a bit sad that it was over. I personally do not want her to write any more Harry Potter books, because without Snape they wouldn't be the same. Thank you JK Rowling, for giving me a lifelong love of the wizarding world, and a permanent place for me to escape into, curl up next to crookshanks and relive it all over again.