Knowing what a slow reader I am, I took off work to read "The Order of the Phoenix" on my pre-set strick schedule which involved 2 hour naps and 20 minute dinner breaks.  Thanks to the momentum of this amazing tale, however, my schedule went by the wayside before Saturday was over, and I finished the book in half the time I had planned for (and slept there after).  This was the best book of the series.  After 3 long years, we finally get to see 15 year old Harry (with a 15 year olds hormones) deal with the return of Voldemort to full power, disappointment and frustration when his friends are given more responsibilities than him, and the guilt and anxiety of his responsibility to his real family, Sirius Black and the Weasleys.<br />It is the worst book in the series for the emotionally unstable, like myself.  The death of a major player in this book, and the very dark themes of the dark magic and the temptations of power are devastating.  The death, in particular, is a hard blow for those of us who have trouble keeping in mind that these characters are fictional and that it is indeed, just a book.  I had to put it down several times and remind myself of that during particularly anxious or morose sections.<br />There is nothing that Rowling could do to this book to make it bad.  After 4 books, Harry and his friends do feel like family, and it's not really a question of how good anymore, but how intense (and how long will we have to wait for the next installment).  However, this book really was an exceptional story.  Rowling has really captured the mind of a 15 year old boy with his insecurities, frustrations, and hormones.  Harry is more real than ever before and his judgement is more human.  He makes mistakes that are terribly costly and even though he learns his lessons, life doesn't just go back to being a beautiful magical wonderland.  He has to live with his mistakes from now on.  Those around him are more human too.  Even Dumbledore is shown to have faults that are very human and help lead to the disasters that are faced in this story, and no doubt in the future. A future that we wait with bated breathe to read.