Like 8.5 million other people, I received my copy of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix yesterday and began reading voraciously right away.  I compared it to a movie release that I had been looking forward to for a long time; you don't go to the theater and watch half the movie, get up, leave and finish a few days later.  You watch the entire movie in one sitting.  After eagerly anticipating this book for the past three years, I decided to commit my entire day yesterday to thoroughly reading Book 5.<br />  My patience and endurance paid off.  Rowling has done it again, brilliantly tying up loose ends from the past four books and starting new plot lines perfectly.  I have always thought that these books are readable independently from one another; although it makes sense to start with Book 1 and read through Book 5 chronologically, I realized as I read Book 5 that someone could pick up this book and enjoy it on its own.  And from cover to cover, this is an amazing stand-alone book.<br />  As other reviewers have stated, this book is more psychological than those in the past.  I thought this was great, for as Potter and company grow older, it makes sense that their thoughts will continue to develop and delve deeper into their consciousnesses.  For example, there is a brief paragraph about Harry's first fifth-year encounter with a female interest from the past, in which he wishes he were laughing and telling jokes to a group of popular kids instead of the dorky children he is actually with.  This is such an honest truth about the way adolescent (and sometimes grown-up) minds work when encountering someone we want to empress.<br />  Aside from the psychologically human aspects Rowling adds to this tome, she continues to make Harry's world the entire world, not just that of Hogwart's.  But she is not showing us a magical earth for the sake of expansion, rather she is showing the natural progression of Harry's understanding of his life and how it is connected to the far reaches of the Earth.  I think sometimes authors expand their stories in this way because they run out of material in the small world they have created around their primary characters, but Rowling brushes aside that tendency and just tells a great story.  Rarely am I invited to a new world like this and felt so welcomed, so excited by what I am to learn next.<br />  There are so many other little aspects I could point out, such as the wonderful way new characters show up in the book while the old characters continue their personal development.  The same goes for the dozens of plot lines and little things that make Harry special.  Through the other four books, the only problem I had was that Harry did not seem special enough--he just seemed to get lucky at the right times and had people to help him out.  It was as if anyone could be in Harry's position.  In this book, Rowling directly addresses that folly and establishes that sure, Harry has gotten lucky and has help from others, but there is a reason for those things and there are things that set him apart from the rest.<br />  Last, I am amazed by the way that Rowling continues to build social commentary into a kid's book.  She talks about educational reform, racism, and the power of government intervention on everyday lives.  I even saw hints of the debates that followed 9/11--should one government interfere with a potential threat, or wait until the threat becomes real?  I do not know if Rowling intended to bring that into play (it parallels the storyline of how the Ministry denies the resurgence of Voldemort), but it fits nicely with this day in time.<br />  All in all, I had no hesitation giving this book 5 stars.  It is brilliantly written, perfectly paced, and invites us to a world that is so close to our own and yet so far away.  Let the momentum from the first four push you into the pages of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.