Of all the books I've only read this one once...well because it was so emotionally powerful. I laughed, I cried, I yelled at the book when the three were doing stupid things, and I cheered when they got things right. Harry, Ron and Hermoine are tested to the limit here in many ways. I cursed Dumbledore with Ron for no telling Harry what to do to defeat Voldemort, but knew he had done the right thing for it was important for Harry, and the others, to be able to grow from figuring it out. All throughout the story the three main characters have success followed by failure as they learn and grow into their adult selves. All I can say is that you just want to shake them as they make wrong,stupid, choices which cause them grief and failure, then cheer as they make the right, smart, choices and take two steps closer to victory. I was surprised at many things in the book, I'm talking about things from past books, which sent me back to read the others to see if Ms Rowling had left us clues that this is what they meant. And of course there is the deaths, which for me made it all the more real because in a grand battle of this proportion it would be unrealistic not to expect deaths. Then there is Draco and his parents who show you characteristics that make you feel sorry for them.<br /><br />My summary of the book, without spoilers, is WOW!!! Ms Rowlings takes things from all the books and pulls them together and makes a truly epic novel, a great end to the series. The solution to who must live and who must die is very realistic, yeah I know it's not possible in the real world but in light of the world of Hogwarts it is possible there. And like any great book it leaves you with a sense of having been enriched morally for having read it, as another author said, it "Give(s) a feeling of resonance".<br /><br />While you need to read all of the six previous books, because otherwise as things are pulled together you would be lost, if you only have this one I would tell you to read it anyway because it is great literature.