I hesitated before writing this review because I wasn't certain who I wanted to write it for: The Harry Potter faithful?  Literary snobs who want to bash all things Potter? The uninitiated? (Are there any left?)  I've decided to address the things I wanted to - without detracting from the future experience of those who haven't yet read the book.<br /><br />For starters I want to say I shall put no spoilers here.  I warily shielded myself from `net, news and people who might be discussing major plot points before I had a chance to read the Deathly Hallows and make up my own mind, and I think every reader should have the same chance.<br /><br />All that being said: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is a magnificently glorious ending to the tales of the wizard with the lightning scar.  I was moved, I was thrilled.  I am happy.<br /><br />Joann Rowling doesn't waste her time with exposition and filling you in on past installments: if you haven't read the first six books get thee immediately to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's/Sorcerer's Stone.  For those who are already "up to speed", this makes for a thrill-ride of the highest order.  Past encounters with the pensieve and patronuses and mandrakes and Hogwart's house-ghosts become enriched and enlightened.  Looking now from the end of the whole series gives me a real sense of awe at the depth and complexity of the mythical world of wizards, witches and muggles.  I read criticism of Rowling's creations and I can't think of anything other than some pitiful, unhappy bit of envy prompting the critics to pronounce "well, it's just not very GOOD".  Harold Bloom has written that in years to come Rowling and Stephen King will be completely forgotten.  I don't pretend to know the future, but my prediction is that centuries after Harold Bloom has been utterly forgotten, people will be reading and loving works by both Rowling and King.<br /><br />Aside from criticism that "it's just not well written", the next line of criticism seems to be along the lines of "it's just pop culture - our children aren't being prompted to read OTHER things while they're wasting their time on Harry Potter".  I see the completely opposite truth first-hand.  My daughter, who was in the third grade when Harry's adventures began, just graduated from high school having read, for example, all of Shakespeare - with the ability to quote lengthy passages from Hamlet, Macbeth, A Midsummer Night's Dream and Much Ado about Nothing.  Prior to Harry Potter, reading was a chore for her.<br /><br />Back to the Deathly Hallows: I couldn't help but imagine the yet-to-be-made film version of this story.  Harry and his friends encounter thrills and battles and demons that would be as appropriate as a wizard Indiana Jones or James Bond.  The book opens with a bang and takes scarcely a breath.  There are about three chapters of slower pace as Harry, Ron and Hermione search their souls and make their plans.  The rest of the book is one hair-raising white-knuckle scrape after another. The "big questions" that have been pondered since "The Half-Blood Prince" are all answered.  Who dies? Is Dumbledore really dead?  Is Snape working for good or the Dark Lord? Things and characters mentioned previously are seen again and carry new weight because of the groundwork that has been laid in previous volumes.  In "Goblet of Fire" Rowling introduces us to the "unforgiveable" curses.  When the torturing "cruciatus" curse is applied in a class demonstration to a spider, Rowling's prose is so descriptive that we feel pity for the spider.  Now, when the curse is placed on major characters, we can almost feel their suffering.<br /><br />Ms. Rowling need never write - or do any other sort of work - again.  But I bet she does.  I hope she does.  Selfishly, I hope that a writer so clever, inventive, and just plain (or, not so plain) entertaining will write again.  If she never publishes another word, we'll always have these books, and "Harry Potter" will be pulled from cherished library shelves in centuries to come as certainly as "The Three Musketeers" or "Tom Sawyer" is today.