Having stayed up all night to read this massive book, my eyes are gritty, my head is full of sand, and I'm pretty sure my breath reeks, and I crave sleep so desperately. And, because I really don't want to give away too many spoilers, this'll possibly be one of the shortest (and most scattershot) reviews I'll drop on the site.<br /><br />Was the reading experience worth it? Yes, it was. Was it what I expected? I'll say this: there's not much wonderment and playfulness in this book. With everything seriously on the line in Harry Potter's magical world and a sense of doom prevailing throughout, there's no time at all for frivolity. Harry, Ron, and Hermione go about their task of seeking out and destroying the Horcruxes, and they discover that that quest is fraught with much interminable waiting and frustration, many stumbling blocks, and tons of dead ends. Much of the book has the trio striving to stave off capture from Voldemort's forces as they fruitlessly search for clues, and steadily growing more despondent as results prove to be few and far between. Also, not as much Hogwarts as I'd hoped, which, to me, was always the most glorious part of the series. There are casualties, as the author's promised, but, thank goodness for me, my favorite characters made it thru.<br /><br />On the down side, many sequences plod, especially in the first half. Stuff does happen, but in between are many moments rife with not much going on except for Harry's soul-searchings and internal struggles. But it's realistic that Harry Potter doesn't arrive at the conclusions or achieve his tasks in a speedy manner. After all, Dumbledore, in the previous book, really didn't give him much of a blueprint. Harry is confused, angry, disillusioned, and frightened. But, still throughout, he remains determined, brave and true to the cause. His best friends, Ron and the very clever and resourceful Hermione, are with him. Mostly.<br /><br />Rowling answers most of the questions. Is Snape good or evil (yes, there's still some doubt)? Who will live? Who will die? Will Harry end up with Ginny? And how can Harry possibly defeat He Who Must Not Have A Nose? Rowling delves deep into Dumbledore's past and also introduces new magical elements in the form of the Deathly Hallows, a trio of powerful artifacts purported to have mastery over Death. Thus, Harry is faced with a new conflict: Hallows or Horcruxes? By the way, it ticks me off  a bit that she drops this new bit of news seemingly off the cuff. No foreshadowing in other books about the Hallows (that I can recall, anyway).<br /><br />Again, it's a massive book. At 759 pages, Rowling strives to put a capper on all the dangling plotlines and, more or less, succeeds. Many of the supporting cast from prior books make an appearance, if ever so briefly. But the rollcall of characters is so vast that many of our favorites are given the once over and then simply shoved to the background. The focus is, naturally, predominantly on Harry, Hermione, and Ron, with Voldemort getting some moments here and there.<br /><br />By the way, I mentioned that portions of the book are slow. That doesn't mean that there aren't moments of extreme peril and tearful sadness, sequences of explosive action and hairbreath escapes thrown in. And the finale is totally, totally worth it. Believe me.<br /><br />I guess I went on longer than I initially thought. Let me close this now by stating that the Harry Potter series is one of my all time favorites. I'll miss it greatly, because, even though I'll re-read this series often, it won't ever again have that initial sense of impending anticipation and excitement. I wish I can develop amnesia just so I can re-discover Harry Potter. There are still two new Harry Potter film adaptations to look forward to, but it's just not the same. *Sigh* I guess I'm off to sleep now.