With sensitivity and depth, Harry Potter finally begins in this fifth book of the series to emerge from his childhood into a multifaceted and dynamic character in his own right.  The continuous fight between Lord Voldemort and The Boy Who Lived reaches greater heights of mystery, action, and desperation in this long-awaited chronicle, just as Harry himself leaves behind the wide-eyed innocent days of his childhood, instead reaching for his emerging young-manhood; this book was definitely worth the wait.<br />However, the story begins with more immediate problems.  Harry, having been cited yet again for using unauthorized magic during his summer holiday, meets at his hearing the most distasteful person of Delores Umbridge, soon to be Hogwarts' new professor for Defense Against the Dark Arts.  Umbridge, who at Hogwarts teaches very little and serves mostly as a Ministry spy, represents for readers the personification of every awful teacher; she is readily familiar and immediately dislikable.<br />Not only that, she persistently and doggedly refuses to acknowledge Voldemort's return to power, spouting only the Ministry's official position that Voldemort remains innocuous, and runs to the Minister of Magic with every little conflict at the school.  Slowly, her power at Hogwarts begins to grow, and correspondingly and most mysteriously, Dumbledore seems to fade into the background. Harry, with his scar "pricking" and "hurting" almost continuously, seems to have no one with whom to discuss his fears and what might happen unless all good wizards might themselves to fight Voldemort when he makes his move.<br />He knows that he can trust members of The Order of the Phoenix, an organization of wizards pledged to defend the wizarding world against evil.  Members include, not surprisingly, Albus Dumbledore himself; Professor McGonagall; Harry's godfather Sirius Black; Mr. and Mrs. Weasley; and the former Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Remus Lupin.  More surprisingly, Harry's chief academic nemesis, Severus Snape, is a member, as are some new and refreshing characters.  However, as Professor Umbridge slowly and systematically begins to cut off Hogwarts from the rest of the wizarding world, Harry's chances of getting support and guidance from these reliable adults begins to recede, and he and his friends are left with their own initiative and ingenuity to confront the forces of darkness which rise inevitably against them.<br />The chiefly satisfying elements of this book are, first, its lack of circuitousness.  This book actually uses the "wizarding language" that most readers learned in the first four books, so the author can throw around references like "muggle," "squib," "Patronus," and "alohamora" without having to slow down the story.  Second, the story follows an clear plot arc, one in which the careful reader can connect parts right alongside its hero.  Mostly, the story is satisfying because of its answers.  Harry has been waiting for explanations to some fundamental questions about his own life, and in this book, with skill and sensitivity, Harry learns more about the odd connection between Voldemort and himself, and he learns a little more about the destiny into which he was born.<br />This is obviously a book that no Harry Potter fan can miss.  If you are a newcomer to the series, please take the time to read the books in order.  You'll be glad that you did!