I remember when the Harry Potter books were first released here in the US in 1998 (renamed from the British Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone to Sorcerer's Stone) and it was enjoyable to watch this unknown author enjoy huge success. However, it was being marketed as a kid's young adult book, so I was not remotely interested. It wasn't until about six months after the 4th installment, Goblet of Fire, was published that I found myself reaching for the first in the series. I was hooked. I read all four that were available in less than a week and was waiting another two years before Order of the Phoenix arrived.<br /><br />All that introduction is to say that Rowling created an incredible universe that I thoroughly enjoyed and the Deathly Hallows was the perfect conclusion to what I feel is one heck of a fantasy/mystery series. And quite a mystery she spun for seven novels (in books that kept getting longer and more involved as time marched on).<br /><br />In this book Harry must confront the evil Voldemort, who has been continually gaining support in his bid to dominate everything. Harry's friends and allies, notably members of the order of the Phoenix are with him almost every step of the way. Again, as she has done throughout the series, Rowling throws in twists and turns, making you think things are one way when they are, in fact, quite another. One of her strengths throughout has been character development and in Deathly Hallows all is revealed about the characters that readers have loved and loved to hate. When this book was released, shattering all sales records (with 15 million copies sold in the first 24 hours) I was one of those people that had to have it on the day of release. And, I am glad for that. I consumed the book in a bit over a day of non-stop voracious reading (759 pages).<br /><br />I highly recommend the entire series to anyone who enjoys fantasy but also to all those who relish a great mystery. Then watch all of the movies. Then read the series over again, like I just did.