Already finished! &lt;Sigh>--Now I'll have to wait another three years to find out what happens next. Guess I'll just have to read it again...<br />Seriously, J.K. hasn't lost her touch. Quite the opposite: I think this is her best so far. I do have to wonder about all the 4-, 6-, and 8-year-olds who'll try to read it, though. As you've probably heard already, this is an even darker story than Goblet of Fire. Nothing is completely black and white anymore; at various times, Harry has reason to doubt everything and everybody he'd once believed in, including Hogwarts and Dumbledore. He even discovers that his father, who has always been held up as a paragon of goodness and character, was perfectly capable of being an cruel, arrogant jerk at age 15. At the end, while Harry and his friends prove to be as brave and resourceful as always (including some you wouldn't have expected), it also turns out that Harry has screwed up big-time. Not entirely his fault--certain adults have screwed up, too--but all the same, the result is the unnecessary death of someone he cares about deeply. (This is the famous death that's been endlessly guessed about on the Internet, and no, I'm not going to tell you who it is.) Rowling doesn't sugar-coat this, or leave Harry an easy emotional out; the end is not a downer, exactly, but it is quite moving. In short, Harry has to shoulder burdens that no 15-year old should have to bear--even as he's also going through an all-too-recognizable phase of being a moody, misunderstood teenager. He's finally getting angry at the situtation he's been thrust into by fate (and Voldemort), and isn't above lashing out at the very people who are trying to help him.<br />I don't want to make this sound heavier than it is. The story really MOVES; 870 pages doesn't seem long at all. And Rowling's sense of humor is still very much with us, even when tinged with poignancy. I highly recommend the so-hilarious-you'll-want-to-cry portrait of two barely aquainted 15-year-olds and their hopelessly inept first date. Oh yes, and Harry does get his first kiss.