First, I love the Harry Potter series even though I'm over 50. It is a work of genius which will entertain generations of all ages for eons.<br /><br />With that said, I have noticed a tone of Rowling's growing resentment toward the Harry Potter character, which has increased with each of the last 4 books. I remember her saying many times that she was writing the series for herself. However, once an author publishes, their books cannot be for the author alone. The minute they sell their works, the author has a responsibility toward the public, the publisher and any contracts with studios and residual Agreements. From the 3rd book on, you can detect a growing resentment which Rowling is developing toward her main character as she begins to lose control of the books and is under increasing pressures with timelines and schedules to complete each sequel. The schedules are an unavoidable necessity due to the aging of the actors and a rush to complete each sequel before they became too old for their roles.<br /><br />I believe Rowlings did not like being pressured by deadlines and it shows in Harry's increasing tendency toward petulance, disregard for the consequences for his actions and increasing self-concentric stubbornness she has instilled in his character. Increasing in intensity with each novel. By this final book, she clearly intended to kill off Harry and irretrievably end the series. Only extreme pressure from her publisher, family or high ranking members of the British Parliament or Monarchy may have changed her intent because hundreds of fans, celebrities and other famous people who pleaded with her did not seem to make any headway in persuading her to spare Harry for the sake of the millions of fans and children.<br /><br />But it looks to me that she attempted to sully the reputations of Dumbledore and make Harry so petulant and self-indulgent with no regard to others that it would turn the fans off from wanting further sequels. If you noticed, she had him sitting in tents for weeks at a time doing nothing with no sense of concern or urgency about innocent people dying, suffering and disappearing at the hands of Voldemort and his followers while Harry supposedly sat around for weeks making no effort at all to expedite his mission. And to ignore the warnings about the tracking attached to those who spoke the name of Voldemort which resulted in loss of life. Or his insistence to indulge his desires to visit the graves and Potter home without concern for Hermione's safety or time lost while people suffered.... and yet, with each mistake, he did not learn. He only became more careless and self-concentric while Rowlings did her best to destroy Dumbledores character for no good reason. It did not enhance the story and she was still dropping bombs on his character even after the book was published. It is clear she has grown to hate her own creation and wants to be free of the Potter aura which made her wealthy and famous. I think she would have made the last book much worse if the publisher had allowed her to crucify the characters in a final act to destroy the series for good.<br /><br />Thankfully, most readers were oblivious to Rowlings growing resentment toward her own characters or were able to ignore it and still enjoy the book.<br /><br />The movies will likely make the time periods seem like days rather than weeks as written and they will soften the petulance and negatives.<br /><br />It is still an enjoyable book and wonderful series despite Rowling's inner struggles to break free from the Potter series prison. I don't think any other books she writes will do well. It would be similar to the actors of Star Trek who could not break out of their roles and finally gave in on the movies and conventions and learned to enjoy and appreciate their stereotyped fame and popularity rather than fight it.<br /><br />One note of interest was a mid 1980's movie I saw a couple years ago called, "Troll" starring Angela Lansbury, her daughter Jessica and a main character... a young boy named "Harry Potter." I nearly fell off the chair when I saw this movie about a magical kingdom, trolls, witches, magic and talking mushrooms. There were several things about this movie which made you wonder about the birth of the Potter series, however... the difference between that movie and this series is like night and day and does not hold a candle to this series.<br /><br />There are endless stories the Harry Potter series could do with the characters as grown adults. There is no limit to how many could be made. I hope to see more even if it is from another author as long as it is written in the same style and does not contradict the basic premise and past events.<br /><br />Nothing could diminish the enjoyment these books and movies have brought to hundreds of millions worldwide....  So Ms Rowlings, get used to it and think about how others feel. You took on this responsibility for the fans the moment you decided to publish your books and sell them to the public. If you wanted to write solely for yourself, you shouldn't have sold the stories to the public. Your responsibility is even greater because the majority of your readers are children and will continue to be so as more children are born and begin to read your books. You are an excellent writer for all ages. Now that your characters are adults, you could write without the same schedule pressures you had when they were young. But like you wrote into Harry's character, you need to be aware of what you say, write and do and how it will affect the majority of others. You can't please everyone, but you can have more empathy and consideration for the majority of the fans and how your actions will affect them. It's a wonderful series, so please don't spoil it.