There are many things in this world that have brought about a different light in me.  So many things that have caused minor changes, small shifts in attitude, small oscillations in mood, and even dramatic alterations of intentions.  Yet not one of these things gave me such a strong and unbreakable reason to change who I was as the Harry Potter books did.  The last book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, was my favorite of the seven books.  I was rather taken aback upon reading this final installment in the series.  The reason is quite simple really, but the effects are absurdly profound.  I grew up in a world where I was never sheltered, shadowed, or even kept at a distance from reality.  I was never allowed to grow up in a world where my "ignorance" was bliss.  I never had the luxury of not knowing just how cruel, maligned, or malicious reality can be.  I grew up, but I never forgot.<br /><br />There are so many things in this final book to which I can relate, so many things which resonated inside me.  The book brought me feelings to memories that never had feelings before.  The book brought hopes and triumphs previously thought to be impossible.  The book, in a mere 750 some odd pages, managed to do what nothing in my short 24.5 years of existence managed to do.  These books gave me a reason to feel and a reason to hope.  Many of my friends who do not like these books avoid reading them for the same reason.  They are under the assumption that these books are only meant for children.  They do not understand what it is like to live in a world where one needs escapes from reality to survive, a world where reality can be far too much to handle, a world where nothing seems right.  They also do not see just how complex, intelligent, and deep the books really go.  The books offered me a hope, a dream, an escape, and eventually a reality.  Although it may seem absurd to think that witches and wizards could become a reality, that is not what I refer to.  Yet why is it so wrong to have dreams, an imagination, hopes, desires, and aspirations?  Why are we so afraid to remember what it was like to be a child?  Why do we run away from things which make us appear "weird," immature, or unique?  Why are we so afraid of having dreams?<br /><br />You see, unlike many of my friends, I do not see only a story about witches and wizards.  I see a story that illustrates so much more about life than so many are willing to acknowledge or accept.  These books gave me so many things, but this final book was so much more.  The final book gave me a glimpse of what it was like to be a kid again.  It gave that view, for whatever reason, without the tarnished and tainted coat of paint I grew up behind.  It showed me what it was like to dream and to dream with more than just my brain.  The euphoric infatuation kept me on a 13 hour adrenaline rush that did not slow, lessen, or fade until the book was finished.  Many may find it foolish, irresponsible, or naive to find so much from a series of books meant for children.  However, I am truly not convinced in any way that these books were really meant to teach children something.  I am inclined to believe these books were only meant to give children an escape, a wonderful tale while simultaneously teaching adults what their children already know.  The impact the books leave on your entire being is somewhat surreal and yet you find while reading this last book exactly why I claim what I just have.  The books are a marvelous creation because they don't give away their true intentions until long after you're addicted to their charismatic moralities.  When I finally finished, I suddenly realized just how clever the entire story was.  A set of books disguised as children's books meant to remind adults what it is like to still dream.  After I finished, the entire finality of the end suddenly overwhelmed me and I felt like I had lost one of my best friends.  I have never really missed people in life, I don't know how to.  I don't really feel things outside of "just fine."  However, upon finishing this last book I truly felt what it means to feel loss.  As sad, embarrassed, and stupid as I feel saying it, I think these books have finally given me the experience of knowing why someone once said, "It is better to have loved and lost than to never have loved at all."