Actually, I'll risk getting lynched by rating this 3.5 stars, but the system won't let me. let's just say that, while it's an okay book, it certainly wasn't worth the tremendous hype, or the original cover price. I'm glad I only paid half-price for it.<br /><br />Yes, I read the darn thing in three days, and yes, the ending was  satisfying, except for the unnecessary epilogue chapter. But Deathly Hallows is not the best in the series, and it would have been substantially improved by being about 200 pages shorter. There are a lot of places where it just bogs down, such as when Harry, Ron, and Hermione dash off on their ill-planned Duh! quest for several weeks, and the entire pointless let's-dive-into-Snape's-memories and Harry-in-Celestial-Limbo chapters, which, coming as they do in the middle of the way-too-long final battle, brings the building tension and all the action to a screeching halt. We already figured out several books ago that a) Snape is a Tortured Character and b) Dumbledore is dead. We don't need these ideas pounded home by a series of heavy-handed flashbacks.<br /><br />And that's what bothers me about this book. It takes itself way too seriously. Where is the fun and weirdness of the previous books? Granted, good vs. evil is a serious topic, but that doesn't mean it has to be boring. This book has no charm; it reads like a war manual. It does have a complex cast of characters that weave in and out of the story, making references to obscure events from several books ago that most readers have probably forgotten. And it does have way too many subplots, many of which seem to have been grafted on at the last minute, including the distracting search for the Three Mystical Objects that isn't even brought up until page 400 or so. One gets tired of all that angst; even Shakespeare had his jolly gravediggers. I think we should have seen more of the wacky Luna, and Neville in his more usual inept form rather than the stiff walk-on character he has turned into.<br /><br />Now here's what I liked about this book: a lot of loose ends were nicely tied up. Not all (we never learn the fate of the house elves, or several minor characters), but a lot of little details in previous books suddenly become very important, and this gives the series a tightly-woven completeness which really makes the ending shine. (The real ending, not the epilogue). And despite his clumsy memory flashbacks, I was most satisfied with the revelations of Snape's true character, much of which I suspected all along, and I am far more intrigued by his fate than that of any other character, including the entire Weasley clan. The moral of this review is, Deathly Hallows is an absolutely necessary read for hard core Potter fans, but don't expect too much from it. You won't be disappointed.