A number of years ago, my ex-wife told me that she was exposing my son to Harry Potter. As a Christian, I had been told many different things from "straight from hell" to "I liked it but not really for kids." I needed to know for myself what was what to so I read all four books that were out at the time. I couldn't put them down and thoroughly enjoyed them! I let others have their own opinions but I really love the series.<br /><br />Here we are now, waiting for the seventh book to be released, and I have become permanently disabled, which makes it so hard to hold a book for long periods of time, even these intoxicating and addictive books but I couldn't put them down no matter how badly my hands hurt!  So what's a person supposed to do who can't hold a book but wants to know what's going on in the Harry Potter universe? Enter Jim Dale bringing an unabridged telling of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone using his multi-talented narration and incredible vocal range to bring Harry Potter, Hermione, Ron, Hagrid, Albus Dumbledore and the rest to life with each one of them having their own voice different from the others. It is so wonderful to be able to put a high quality CD in and just get lost in the world of magic found in the Harry Potter Universe. I loved the narration so much that I finished this first audio book in two or three days so I quickly ordered another one in the series!<br /><br />Quickly you begin to be able to tell Ron's voice apart from Harry's and so on. Hermione's voice is a hoot because Mr. Dale always has her draw out Harry's name to sound like, "Harreee." It is interesting to note in this first book that "Voldemort" is actually pronounced "Voldemorre" but I think that has to do with the way the English "speak English." However, I just received and am listening to "Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince" and Jim Dale is very clearly saying "Voldemort" now. It may be because of the movies, fans, the publishing house or author but for whatever reason, it sounds more natural to me and how I would have pronounced it myself.<br /><br />I recommend this audio book to you highly as you rediscover the magic of the book that started it all while you lay down to rest, do dishes, go for a drive or a jog, head for work or whatever else you may do where you can concentrate on the fantastic story telling. And if you miss something or find yourself wanting to dive back into the world of Harry Potter, you can always rewind or start again! The price is great and the product is awesome. Thanks!