The events that took place at the end of Harry's fourth year at Hogwarts, along with the events that unfold in his fifth year, make Harry a very angry person in this book. Fed up with being talked about his back and being accused as a liar, Harry spends a lot of this book being angry and lonely and losing his temper. He flies off the handle seemingly every other page in the first half of the book. It seems he has an uncontrollable temper, a lot of suppressed rage and bottled-up anger. He seems to have lost all sense of self-preservation and he seems intent on going around bad-tempered all the time making enemies and getting in trouble on a regular basis. He hates being whispered about, but he keeps giving people reasons to whisper. I got tired of reading about his constant unhappiness and his continual temper tantrums. It was overkill.<br />This book was a bit too long. It's not until 200 pages into the book that the students even arrive at Hogwarts. A lot of that first 200 pages is devoted to the description of cleaning the old Black house. One good part about the pre-Hogwarts story was that it was interesting to finally read about the offices of the Ministry of Magic. But on the whole, Rowling starts trying to create too many subplots in this book. And as usual, everything tries to get explained all in the last 20 pages, but there were a lot of questions left unanswered.<br />After five books, we find FINALLY find out at the end of this book the reasons why Harry is forced to spend his summers with the Dursley's. However, the explanation contradicts the fact that Harry had to be followed, guarded and protected during the first part of the summer, while he was still at the Dursley's. There were lots of other unanswered questions as well. What were the parchments that Bill and Mr. Weasley were looking at after the first Order of the Phoenix meeting that took place upon Harry's arrival? Why was the time and location of the hearing changed at the last minute and who changed it? Why did they have a full trial in the old courtroom? Why did Fudge seem flustered that Dumbledore managed to show up at the trial? What exactly was Umbridge's motivation for wreaking such havoc at Hogwarts? Why was Umbridge going to allow the Slytherin team to reform but not the Gryffindor team? What were the brains in the tank all about, and all the other strange stuff in the Department of Mysteries? What was with the veiled archway? Luna's "explanation" didn't really explain anything about what was behind that veil. And where did the person who fell through that veil end up going?<br />But the book wasn't all bad, not by any means. Despite the problems I had with it, I still found it more enjoyable than not. The focus of the story is Dumbledore's and Harry's efforts to convince the wizarding community that Harry is telling the truth about the return of Voldemort. There are new revelations about Harry's past and some ominous warnings about his future. Despite the overall gloomy mood of the novel, there are some fun parts. The awkward relations between Cho and Harry are highly entertaining. I wish there had been more of that. Ron's reaction to Ginny having a boyfriend is quite amusing. There some interesting new characters in this book. Dolores Umbridge is the Ministry of Magic employee who takes over the Defense of the Dark Arts position and makes enemies out of nearly everyone she meets. She is convincingly hateful, sickeningly sweet and maddeningly irritating. An awful woman. My favorite new character is Tonks, who is only seen briefly at the beginning and end of the book, but who is hilarious nonetheless.<br />I liked this book. It's not as good as the first four and there are too many ominous and dark parts for my taste, but I still enjoyed reading it. I do miss the lighthearted fun of learning about the magical world, though. For once, Harry thankfully doesn't end up in the hospital wing at the end of the book, but that doesn't change the fact that this book has a thoroughly depressing ending. It's one of the worst endings to a book that I've ever read.