Okay, first off, I don't care that the U.S. version of this book has to do with the "Sorcerer's Stone" as opposed to the "Philosopher's Stone".  Personally, I like the former better as it ties into the universe better.  But I could be wrong, so please minimize the amount of hate mail sent my way.<br />  That being said, what kid doesn't imagine someone coming to them when they're around ten or eleven years old and explaining why they're different from others, assuring them that these differences are quite all right, and whisking them off to a magical school where they'll be fully accepted because of these differences.  I'm convinced that this is what hooked so many onto this series and made it so successful (it pulled J. K. Rowling out of near-poverty or something close to it.)  But my guess could be wrong.  I don't know as I'm not a therapist...I don't even own a couch and I'm certainly not on TV.  But I've convinced myself with this theory so I thought I would share it.<br />  Now then, I loved this book.  I loved this series.  All seven books will be getting five stars because I can't go any higher.  And, so it's also made clear, Hermione Granger is without a doubt my favorite character across the board, though there are a lot more that I still really, really like.  I think this goes back to my liking girls with brains.<br />  Right from the start, J. K. Rowling gave us one heck of a world to work with.  Hidden train platforms, flying broomsticks, three-headed dogs, dragons, wands and spells, potions, and talking portraits are just the tip of the iceberg...and I love it all!  In this book, I will say that Hagrid is my favorite faculty member because he's probably the kind of mentor I'd want...kind but firm and helpful but wisely cautious at times (i.e. pointing out Fang's cowardly nature.)<br />  I read somewhere that the book's editors wanted to do away with the troll in the bathroom, but I say "how dare they?"  This scene was the first of many turning points in this series and, without it, we may not have had many of the others.<br />  I will say I wish Professor Quirinus Quirrell played a bigger role in this book.  I know he plays a huge role in the end, but I wish he was more built up beforehand.  Sure, the surprise involving him was still appropriate, but given what's said about his post as the Defense against the Dark Arts teacher, a job said to be cursed even in this book, I'd have liked to at least see him teach something.  I don't remember any of that.  In fact, during the school year, the only thing I remember about him is when he fainted while reporting the troll attack.<br />  I do like how the Dursleys were developed, especially Vernon.  Even though it's never said or even implied, the amount of time devoted to this family allows us to clearly link them later on with the family that doesn't believe in magic or anything similar, even if their motives for such beliefs remain a mystery a while longer.<br />  I did find it odd that Hagrid never told Harry about how to find Platform 9 3/4.  It seemed like one heck of an oversight, even for Hagrid.  Sure, it opened the door for Harry to meet the Weasleys, but still...<br />  While I'm on the subject, I'm also wondering how Muggle-born students like Hermione managed.  I completely understand why Hagrid was sent to help Harry, given the boy's history and all that.  But how do others who don't know any of this stuff find these places.  There obviously aren't street signs and even Hermione couldn't have prepared for Diagon Alley somehow.  Does Hogwarts send someone to every new student without witch/wizard parents?  Do they send a detailed manual for you to read once you've recovered from your fainting spell?  I would have liked some elaboration on this.<br />  But for all my nit-picking, this was an absolutely great book.  Jim Dale does an especially good job on the audio version, which is unabridged, which, in this case, should earn the book another nine stars on its own.  If you're among the only two people in the world who don't know Harry Potter, "The Boy Who Lived", don't waste any more time.  Read this book!  Enjoy.