"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix" is perhaps the most "adult" book of the Potter series so far.  I haven't read "Half-Blood Prince" yet, so I can only base my review of this book in comparison to the books that preceded it.  First of all, Harry has become very, very moody.  It's most likely a combination of the stressful events he went through in "Goblet of Fire," puberty, and the fact that he is now considered to be nothing but an egotistical, perhaps insane, teenager looking for glory by the bulk of the wizarding world.  All around him his world is falling apart.  Dumbledore will not speak to him.  Sirius is desperate to get out of his hiding place.  Ron and Hermione are now prefects (not to mention Draco) and Harry has never felt lonelier.  Old friends are finding it hard to trust Harry.  Potential love interests seem to be lingering on the past.  Even the dependable Hagrid is missing.  To top things off, the Ministry of Magic has installed a very persuasive lliason at Hogwart's name Dolores Umbridge, perhaps one of Rowling's most despicable creations.  All the while, that scar of Harry's seems to be burning more often and he's beginning to have some bizarre dreams.  Oh, and Voldemort, whose existence is being questioned by most of the wizarding world, has his death eaters on the trail of something that obviously means a lot to him and Harry must once again try to stop him.<br /><br />It all adds up to one very large, very chaotic book that loyal Potter fans will eat up.  We get to meet characters such as the slightly goofy Luna Lovegood and the sinister Bellatrix Lestrange.  Fred and George bloom into their own independent characters in this story.  Snape, Lupin, Moody, McGonagal, and even Professor Trelawney are also given wonderful character treatments this time around.  There are also a few surprises involving the fates of certain characters AND the revelation of another student at Hogwart's being a potential threat to Voldemort.<br /><br />There is a little (very little) cursing in this book, and the characters are being placed into more perilous situations.  Aside from the challenges in "Goblet of Fire," "Order" has probably got more action and danger in it than any previous Potter novel.<br /><br />The book is very long, and at times can seem to be a train wreck, but in the end, Rowling neatly ties everything together and baits the reader for Book Six.  She drops more hints in this book and introduces more new characters than in any previous book.  There are so many new twists added to the Potter realm that one may feel the need to re-read some of the chapters.  In all, however, this is a wonderful read.<br /><br />Highly recommended.