At the time I write this, there are some 5,512 Amazon reviews written about J.K. Rowling's HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, and while not all of them are to the point (there are grumblings about shipping, for instance), there's not much more I can say to persuade or dissuade someone to read this book.  Indeed, although I am sure there are still many first-generation readers to come after me, I do feel like I'm the last person to get around to this book.  Indeed, not having even seen a Harry Potter movie, I'm a complete neophyte.<br /><br />As with some other books I've reviewed on Amazon, I've read this first Harry Potter entirely because my daughter wanted it read to her.  (Mind you, she's already read it many times over herself, could tell if I made a gaffe in my reading, and in fact was sure to point it out in every instance.  Moreover, she took offense at my growling, slightly Scottish accent for Hagrid.  I can't help it if his dialect as written sounds a wee bit Highlander to me.)<br /><br />So, for all those Muggles (i.e., regular dudes, squares, laobaixing, what Rugrats become) who haven't read HP/SS (to use the fandom lingo, or HP/PS, if you're reading the original British version, HARRY POTTER AND THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE), here's the upshot: Harry Potter, the son of a pair of heroic wizards is deposited on the doorstep of his wretchedly Muggle aunt, uncle and cousin, the Dursleys, where he's forced to live as a Muggle in a dirty cubby under the stairs and is regularly mistreated throughout his childhood.  When it comes time for him to go off to middle school, Harry, who, as it turns out, is famous in the magic world, escapes from the Dursleys to attend the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.  The rest of this volume recounts Harry's first year at Hogwarts, including his making friends, his success at the game of Quidditch, and his encounter with the evil being said to have killed his parents, Voldemort.<br /><br />It's a charming read.  (You probably think I'm being sarcastic; I'm not.)  I won't get into the argument as to whether or not it's truly literature.  Children adore the book, and a lot of adults as well.  I must admit that I found Harry taking a bit too much delight in the suffering of his enemies to make me feel comfortable about him being a role model of any sort to my daughter; then again, Harry went through a childhood guaranteed to keep a Muggle child in therapy for years to come.  As far as my daughter is concerned the bad kids simply deserved it.