...which is what Harry Potter realized while on his quest to defeat the evil Lord Voldemort.  The difference between him and the Dark Lord was that Voldemort feared death above all else, while Harry understood that death is a necessary part of life and therefore, nothing to fear.<br /><br />What else can we say about J.K. Rowling's famous septology?  We've had mystery, a bit of romance, mythology, drama, folklore, comedy, and adventure, wrapped up in a wonderful package.  The standout of this story (all well as the previous six books) is Rowling's eye for detail and imagery, as well as character development.  She also understands psychology really well, being able to create distinct personality quirks for each character.  The Potterverse isn't Harry's alone, it's everyone's from owls, centaurs, wizards and witches, house elves, and magic spells.  One is no greater than the other.  I also liked learning the pathology of each of her characters: their fears, desires, their motivations, and ideas.<br /><br />In this book, Harry and his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger decide to carry out Albus Dumbledore's request of Harry to find the remaining Horcruxes in order to finally defeat Voldemort.  Three 17-year old (barely qualified) wizards on a journey to destroy the most evil wizard of the age is not an easy undertaking, physically and emotionally.  They begin their journey in a panicky escape, and sort of improvise the entire way (where would they be without Hermione, one of the most brilliant witches of their generation?)  The journey wears heavily on them, but this is the true coming of age for the three.  What they discover on this journey is probably the greatest education that Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry could have never given them.  They experience pain, loss, abandonment, freedom, sacrifice, and most importantly, the impact of love.<br /><br />If there's anything that I would criticize, it's Rowling's trite epilogue.  Compared with her complex storytelling throughout the series, the epilogue was pretty childlike, a bit corny.  In her defense, she wrote the epilogue very early in her creation of the entire Potterverse, and was determined to stick with it until the very end.  For the orphaned and neglected Harry, who faced death again and again, I suppose that it's only fair that he gets a bit of saccharine.  If anyone deserved a chance at a happy ending, it would be him.  At least for us faithful readers, we know that his major ordeal wasn't all for naught.