Opening with a pent-up, fed-up Harry ready to blast Duddly through a brick wall in an ally-way, until two Dementors attack them, this 5th book is a wonderful companion piece to Metallica's St. Anger CD just release two weeks prior.<br />Once again Rowling has so much story to tell that the pace never stops. Nearly every chapter ends as a cliff-hanger spilling you right into the next making the book nearly impossible to put down. I received this book at 7:00pm Saturday the 21st, and had completed reading by 5:00pm Monday.<br />The basic story is this, Fudge refuses to accept Harry's and Dumbledores claim that Voldemort has returned, and nearly insane with fear that it may be true he launches a smear campaign against them. Hermione still has Rita Skeeter under control, but the daily prophet rages on drawing Dumbledore as a power mad old man and Harry as a cry-baby attention / headline seeker who will break any rule to be important. It gets worse when Fudge forces a controlling, lunatic assistant as Hogwarts Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. She quickly makes up new rules for Hogwarts as decrees from the ministry every time anything works against her (like threatening expulsion to any student reading a news paper that printed an interview with Harry detailing Voldemorts return.)<br />Finally, though, the kids stand up and are heard. Gone are the days when Harry, Ron and Hermione (and there friends, now more involved than before) would hide and sneak around the teachers. This time they are upfront and demanding of their earned respect and place in the impending battle against the Dark Lord and his Death Eaters.<br />This time around Voldemort is after a Prophecy, contained in a sphere in the Ministry of magic, it foretells his and Harry's fate from before Harry was born. The catch is, on those the prophecy relates to can touch it and not wanted to storm the ministry Voldemort must try to lure Harry there, but take it before Harry can find out what it says.<br />Most of the moments we've been waiting for are here. We find out why Harry must always return to the Durselys and why he was really left there to begin with. Dumbledore finally sits down with Harry and tells him all that he knows and why he's done the things that he has, including being distant and secretive from Harry at times. We also gain a deeper insight on Snape and his quarrel with Harry's father. The relationship or not with Cho is explored and finalized, although the possible sexual tension between Ron and Hermione is not discussed although I expected them to keep bickering and screaming until they were all over each other. There is also a loss of life that results in Harry needing to decide his path and come to final grips with his sense of being alone.<br />And, finally, Mooney, Lupin and Co. give the Durselys a little talking too concerning their treatment of Harry.<br />Finally, this book concludes in a way that almost, but not quite ties everything other than who will win and how up. The ending is definitely more satisfactory than books 2,3 & 4.<br />What else to say, can't wait for books 6 & 7, it keeps getting better.