I was late to the Harry Potter game, but I loved it. In this book, Harry got a letter saying he is in fact a wizard. So he is enrolled the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Him, along with his new friend the giant Hagrid, go to Diagon Alley, a magical bazaar, and thus he is thrust into the magical universe so captured the imagination of millions. We soon learn Harry is world famous among wizards for conquering an evil Wizard named Vo - um - He Who Must Not Be Named. Sorry `bout that slip. =). The book also introduces the relationship dynamics that would continue throughout the entire series, from the interplay between the three main kids (Harry, Ron, and Hermione), to the ambiguous Severus Snape, the wise mentor figure of Albus Dumbledore, bumbling Hagrid with his love of nasty creatures, prim and reserved Professor McGonagall, evil incarnate Voldemort, Draco Malfoy, etc.<br /> Along the way, we learn that Voldemort is after a magical artifiact called the Philosopher's Stone (which was, unfortunately, changed from the UK original title to &#34;Sorcerer's Stone&#34; in all other regions). So much of the novel is driven by the three main characters defending this stone from Voldemort. The book is engaging with its imagery, humor, plot twists and real-life child problems. The book doesn't only appeal to children but adults as well. She's a master on fantasy. She really can, with no difficulty at all, think herself back to 11 years old. You will love the whimsical descriptions, humorous quotes and the fun characters.<br />This book was much fun to read. Very enjoyable. the writing is fabulous and the story line is also exceptional. It is probably the best book i have ever read. Overall very good i would recommend it basically to anyone who wants a good story. This is, without a doubt, one of the BEST books I have read in my life! I LOVE anything dealing with fantasy and/or humor, so I hardly put this book down when I started reading it! This book ranks up there with any of Roald Dahl's dark kids' books. My dad and my mom are going to read it, too, and I gave a copy to my best friend. I can't wait for Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets to be published in the USA! Take my advice: If you haven't read Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, then you haven't read anything yet! I think Harry Potter is a great character. I like the word &#34;muggle&#34; and I think it might become an ordinary word. My favorite chapter in Harry Potter was Quiddich - I wish it was a sport that was real. I liked it because it was a mix of sorcery and basketball. I was really lucky becauses my mom got a hold of the second book which is only out in England, but soon will be in America. I will give you a little hint. Harry Potter and his friend fly in a car and get in trouble. I can't wait until the third book comes out. Reminiscent of T.H. White's The Sword in the Stone, this lovely book captures one's imagination and sets off on a fantastical adventure. Equally appealing to adults and children, it weaves an intricate world that is pleasant to visit even though evil lurks and must be avoided at many turns. It's biggest fault is that it ends much too soon!