First of all, my 9 year old daughter wanted this for xmas and she LOVES it. Has tons of pokemon characters in it and such. However, I can't understand why this is called an &#34;essential&#34; handbook, nor do I understand why the kids love it so much. You might roll your eyes at this review, but I thought I'd post it for anyone looking to get this book (or the other one that has the &#34;red&#34; background title) for a functional reference purpose. It really doesn't provide any useful information if you're playing the card game the way it was meant to be played. My husband thought the whole pokemon concept was dumb and a waste of time. However, after an insightful conversation with a game store clerk about the ins and outs of pokemon, my husband actually sat down with my daughter over the holidays and together they learned how to play the game for real. The way the kids have been playing is nowhere close to the actual procedure and rules. It's actually a decent game when you understand it. Good strategy and math involved which I think is great for the age. If you look at the cards, they tell you all the necessary specs for each pokemon so you can know how to use that card in the game. This book, however, doesn't really give you any of that information. It can't be used as a reference to find out what pokemon cards you might want to try to get in the future to use in play because it doesn't give you the numerical specs that the cards have, such as damage points for example. When my husband learned the game, he remembered she got this book and was excited to look through it to determine what pokemons he could try to use in the future. To his dismay, it didn't provide any details he was looking for. All this really is, is just a picture book of all the pokemons and what characters they evolve to. Not at all useful. I wouldn't suggest not to buy it if your kid wants it. For the price, it's not bad and the kids like looking through it and reading about the characters which is fine with me if it gets them reading and is entertaining. However, I think the title is pretty misleading because this book really has no useful, functional purpose.