The Hunger Games is a story set in a bleak post-apocalyptic future controlled by a fascist government.  Modern day North America is now a country called Panem, made up of twelve districts (And a destroyed thirteenth district).  For some reason, the ruling Capitol district requires that each of the twelve districts enlist two of their children to compete in a battle royale (Or Battle Royale, since it borrows heavily from that book) in order to prove that they have control over them.  I'm not really sure how this would be an effective way to keep order, but just go with it.  This review contains spoilers!<br /><br />Anyway, it's not the worst book I've read, but I can tell that Collins definitely didn't know exactly how she wanted to end it.  As far as the writing goes, there were definitely a few instances where I would read a mangled sentence and just scratch my head.  I wouldn't really say that this is Collins fault so much as the editor, though, so I give this a pass.  What I can't forgive are the inherent flaws with the plot.  Allow me to explain:<br /><br />1)  The way that the deaths of the contestants are handled.  I think this could be a product of choosing to do a first-person narrative rather than third-person.  Most of the contestants die off screen, and very rarely do we get to see anything actually take place near Katniss (What's with that name, by the way?  But I digress).  I'm pretty sure that the only time in the entire book Katniss directly kills anybody is when she puts an arrow through the throat of Nameless Contestant #whatever after he kills Rue.  Regardless of whether you decide to include the Tracker Jacker "kill" in the list, she never actually had to kill anybody unprovoked and it almost feels kind of cheap on the part of the author.  As an aside, Foxface inexplicably dies from eating poisonous berries which is pretty much the last thing you would expect to happen to an "intelligent" character.<br /><br />Probably the most heinous example of what I'm talking about is Thresh.  Collins spends quite a bit of the book building up Thresh and making him an extremely imposing obstacle.  I was expecting some big final showdown with Thresh until he suddenly died offscreen.  See what I am talking about here?<br /><br />2) Way too much of this love business.  I don't really have a problem with Peeta + Katniss or whatever, but why did Collins feel the need to draw it out and act like there's some love triangle going on when there isn't?  Gale is in the book for maybe a few pages.  It makes zero sense to have Katniss feel like she has some big choice to make.  It didn't help that the romance got in the way of some things that would have been interesting to see like, um, the FIGHT WITH THRESH?<br /><br />3) The rule changes.  It's the author's world, I respect that.  What I don't respect is when the author changes the rules multiple times as it fits the plot.  Don't want Katniss to have to deal with the no-win scenario and off Peeta?  Have the Capitol change the rules for no reason at all.  Need to have some dramatic finale where Katniss and Peeta have to think of a way out of the no-win situation AFTER deciding they wouldn't kill each other? Change the rules back!  Peeta has blood poisoning and you wrote yourself into a corner?  Capitol puts backpacks out filled with things each of the contestants desperately needs!<br /><br />4) The Muttations (Her word, not mine.)  I can't fathom why Collins thought this was necessary.  I had to reread the paragraph where they're introduced a few times just to digest what the hell was happening.  I understand that this is a futuristic district that has access to impossibly skilled geneticists but since when does genetic engineering mean you can create zombie werewolves?  I'm not kidding, zombie werewolves were put into this book.  It also exposes a pretty obvious plot hole.... think about it:<br />The Capitol didn't want there to be no winner at all, right?  They reacted pretty quickly when Katniss and Peeta were both going to eat those toxic berries.  So if they were against not having any winner at all, why would they release those killer mutts?  Those things could have killed all three contestants that were remaining pretty easily, and almost did.  See what I mean about this not making any sense?<br /><br />The ending itself is just worthless on countless levels.  There is really no resolution to anything at all, it's all just a teaser for the next book (Which I will not be reading).  Katniss has a chance to stand up to the Capitol and doesn't.  Peeta really "loves" Katniss but Katniss doesn't "love" him back.  You can argue that this is O.K. because it's a trilogy but it really isn't okay at all.  Each book should be a stand alone story and have a resolution.  Each book of Harry Potter had a resolution, didn't it? It was part of an overarching plot, but each book definitely could stand alone as a good fantasy story.  Not so with this series.<br /><br />I really wanted to like this book more.  For what it's worth, the world it's set in is pretty interesting and well developed (Well, minus the zombie werewolves).  The book really falls apart once the titular Hunger Games get started, so I really only enjoyed the first half of the book.  It is a young adult novel, so if you want to check it out of the library you can easily read it in a night.  I would not pay money for this book.