What a disappointing ending. Huge plot build-up over three books for the final heroine vs. arch-villain encounter and all of a sudden it takes a sharp turn into morphling land. Seems like Suzanne was trying too hard to avoid a clich&eacute; ending and ended up ruining the story for almost everyone.<br /><br />I'm going to rewrite the ending below for the rest of us (cliff notes format):<br /><br />Katniss was being pushed forward by the crowd into the courtyard when she saw Peeta walking (voluntarily) with a group of Peacekeepers towards the Capitol building. She presses through the crowd and makes a final desperate assault on the group right before they enter the doors of the Capitol, killing some of the guards but running out of ammo as the last remaining guard lifts his weapon to fire on her. Katniss closes her eyes and hears the shot, reopens to see Gale by her side, who arrived to her rescue in the nic of time. As she's taking this in an entire platoon of Peacekeepers burst out from within the Capitol building. To Katniss' horror Peeta without hesitation raises his weapon and shoots Gale point blank, spinning him around and back down in the crowd. He then levels his gun at Katniss, but the head PeaceKeeper commands him to halt. Peeta robotically obeys and lays down his weapon. Peeta and Katniss are ushered into Snow's abode, events are retold from the perspective of the PeacKeepers, and Snow gloats triumphantly while Katniss hisses in rage at Peeta. Snow takes Peeta and Katniss to the Capitol building balcony and has his TV crew film live, which places the entire war on breathless hold as everyone sees their beloved Mockinjay in Snow's possession. Snow then asks Peeta to do the honors and execute Katniss on live TV, to which Peeta responds in the affirmative, holding Snow's gun to her head and pulling the trigger. Nothing happens of course because Snow was testing him, and now hands him a loaded gun. Peeta appears to repeats the action but fires on Snow instead, wounding him. Katniss jumps on Snow and together they fall off the balcony, Snow to his death and Katniss caught by Peeta at the last second. Katniss prepares to let go but Peeta explains that he had shot Gale in the shoulder to protect him from the PeaceKeepers and had been trained by Haymitch and Beetres(?) on how to differentiate between a loaded and empty gun. He explains that it was a desperate act in order to save her because he could not live without her. That's when Katniss knows for sure that she loves Peeta, and they embrace and kiss on live TV as both sides cheer, and the war is over.<br /><br />Epilogue: Turns out Finnick survived the assault by the reptilians and is now a happy father of three. Prim has followed in her mother's footsteps and has become a reknown healer. Johanna marries Gale, and Katniss and Peeta recover from their ordeal and live happily ever after. Haymitch runs for president, and the world of Panem(?) is whole again, if slightly less sober.<br /><br />The End