I  don't understand how so many people could give this 5 Stars.<br /><br />At the beginning of the summer I received a recommendation to read The Hunger Games' series. And I dove in and read then both in 4 days. While I felt the novels were dark, I enjoyed the story line. I was impressed with the creativity of the author and I couldn't wait to read the end. I made a HUGE mistake and purchased Mockingjay on Pre-Order. It was awful. By the end I wanted to punch Katniss in the face. Collins failed to advance the plot and she failed to build on the development of the characters that she spent 2 novels working on and that I devoted myself to. As a reader I have to like at least one of the main characters, and I feel it is the author's responsibility to make me understand the other characters. In this last book Katniss was whiny, indecisive and weak. This is not someone who could lead a revolution. Who would be inspired by this character? I felt duped and angry that I was willing to follow her at all, but I still had hopes after the first two novels. I knew early in Mockingjay who Katniss was going to end up with. Gail and Peeta both were great characters until Mockingjay. Peeta could have not even been mentioned and it's like Collins worked overtime to convince the reader that Gail's is a bad person. Except I don't believe it, I felt like I knew Gail from the first two and this change in him doesn't jive. Is it the war, is Gail running around on the front lines. Did Gail get thrown in the Hunger Games himself. Oh wait no it was his love for Katniss that made him a bad person. I just can't grasp it. The Gail in the first two novels had a good heart, bitter but good. This final novel was dark without reason and without realism. War is Dark. I get that and as a member of military I see it everyday. However darkness in this novel wasn't real. There was no light. Hope is the thing that drives the soldiers of war. By the end I didn't care about the characters. I didn't care if there was an end to the Hunger Games. I didn't care that the districts were destroyed. And it was obvious the author didn't care either. It was like she had a page requirement. Stretch the novel to reach it and then wrapped it up with three paragraphs at the end. If I read a thousand pages, even if you fail to work on a reasonable plot, even if you fail to develop the characters, do me the courtesy of a quality ending. Something that makes those previous pages worth the read. I cannot in good faith recommend any of the Hunger Games, because I wouldn't want some one to feel obligated to finish it.