Say what you will about how readers might not like this book because they wanted a "fairy-tale ending", or because they don't "get" how profound it was; the fact of the matter is, this book is objectively bad. Not bad as in evil, but bad as in exhibiting poor craftsmanship. The storytelling is ineffective, incoherent and nonsensical.  The conflicts are contrived, the characters are soulless and Katniss' motivation becomes overpowered by the author's need to wrap up the rebellion.<br /><br />In the end Katniss' character is on the receiving end of the most horrific assassinations in the book. Throughout the last 2/3rds of the book she is reacting in a numb, zombie-like state as the events of the world close in around her. She has no clear motive, her self-sacrifice at the beginning of the Hunger Games turns into a muddled and confused array of reactions and rash decisions. Good authors give the lead character a choice in which there are two equally compelling options. In the end of this book, Katniss generally either has no choice or the ones that she makes are obvious.<br /><br />Like a previous reviewer said, I did indeed want to see Katniss infiltrate the capital and take Snow down. But that didn't happen. I am really okay with that not happening. I like the gritty realism that the author was going for. However, nothing Katniss does contributes very strongly to how things turn out. Snow was practically brought to her on a silver platter after someone (once again) rescued her from near death. She is the worst heroine in history. Everything she does fails and the only reason she survives in the end is because of the help of other people. The other characters keep talking about how powerful she is and in the end she is the most useless part of the rebellion. I'm not exaggerating when I say the author couldn't have made a worse ending if she would have had Katniss accidentally blowing up Snow by tripping over her own bomb-rigged shoelaces. That is not a spoiler, by the way, but a much more entertaining version of how the book ends. Some call this feminist friendly, but I would say that if you think feminism means that women can't do anything right, always make stupid decisions and that mothers can be so callous as to just abandon a child having gone through serious trauma (Katniss' mother doesn't even visit her after the rebellion is over, she's like "call me when you get out of solitary confinement - toodles!"), then it is feminist friendly. I have a different view of feminism, so I disagree.<br /><br />The worst part is when some no-name character becomes the new president. What was all this build up for, so someone for which the reader cannot possibly have any sympathy can take over? I mean really, there was no character from the first two books that could have not died and stepped up to be the new president? There were three questions that I wanted answered, three questions which led me to read non-stop through the entire series. One of them was not when, but how Katniss would overtake Snow. Okay, so she does, kinda, but I really think tripping over her shoelaces would have legitimately been way better. The second was Gale or Peeta. Okay and she chooses Peeta because as it turns out Gale, like Katniss, is a little bit of a hot-head. Gale was like, "mighta bombed your sister, whoopsie-doodle". Okay he didn't say that, but he might as well have because the actual conversation between Gale and Katniss in the book was way more superficial and pointless. Well, that was kinda lame, and again doesn't really give Katniss much of a choice. I guess the author might have picked up on the fact that it takes more than bread-making savvy and cake decorating wizardry to create a convincing teen heartthrob, so she just tried to even the playing field a bit. And you know what, I'm still not convinced that Pete was the right choice considering his homicidal tendencies but I guess the heart wants what the heart wants. The third thing that kept me reading was who would take over when the rebellion ended. Coin was shady from the start, I knew that. You wanted to know that the rebellion wouldn't end in leadership worse than Snow. And so Katniss' decision to vote for the next wave of Hunger Games then shoot Coin was actually pretty decent. However, who was that no-name looser they elected for the new president? There are no words to describe the antipathy I have for that resolution. I felt robbed.<br /><br /> Okay, so people don't write long-winded rants about books that are completely bad. I am upset because the elements for a great book were all there. But the fact of the matter is, while I rooted for the characters in the first two books of the trilogy, in this one I found myself rooting for the Mutts so the book could be over and the characters would stop annoying me. I was even glad to see Prim go because she didn't do anything but act helpless. And don't get me started on her stupid cat buttermilk or whatever its name was. Why were whole minutes of my life taken from me by reading about that stupid cat with its stupid attitude? I think this book was rushed and that the author could have done much better with rewrites and even remotely competent editors. Stay away from this one if you can. But if you are like me and cannot resist reading because of the first two, be prepared for a let-down.