Let me first start by saying that I absolutely adored the first book in this trilogy, The Hunger Games. It was incredibly well written and I felt like I really got to know the characters. I loved the amount of detail the author went into, and as soon as I finished this first book, I could not wait to start reading Catching Fire.<br /><br />Book Two: Although Catching Fire was not quite as wonderful as The Hunger Games, a lot of the same emotion, detail, and character development were present in Catching Fire. Definitely not disappointed.<br /><br />Enter book three - Mockingjay. I'm not sure whether the author was under pressure to finish this book by a certain deadline or whether she was just getting tired of writing about Katniss, Peeta, and the rest of the Hunger Games gang, but it felt like she was in a hurry to finish the book. As a result, it was missing all of the detail and character development that I loved so much about the first books. It was totally lacking in this book!! I thought the author would use this book to tie up loose ends, explain what happened to the characters, explain how the war really did change them, and then give us more insight into their lives post-revolution. Nope. Nothing! I mean, honestly, locking Katniss up for a few weeks just to avoid giving details about her trial? What a cop out!<br />In addition to the lack of detail, which is my number one complaint, there's also a total lack of emotion. Think back to Rue's death in the first book - I cried like a baby because the author gave so much detail and explained the pain Katniss felt! In this book, some very major characters died, yet I felt nothing: "Oh, so XXXXX is dead? K, cool. Moving forward." I don't think that's how Katniss felt, and I don't think that's the reaction the author was really going for.<br />I'm not going to complain about the plot, because although there are a few things I would change, I'm sure the author knew where she wanted to take it. My complaints are completely, 100% about the execution and quality of writing.