I have so many reasons for disliking this book its hard to know what bothers me the most.  I guess I could start with the ludicrous premise of a world where a government is so incredibly evil it forces children to fight to the death in some fantastical high tech arena..... Lots of shades of grey there eh?  Or I could mention the juvenile plot focusing on action, surprise cliffhanger endings, and a simplistic "page turning" writing style at the expense of character depth and real plot development.  Or it could be the interminable costume and hair details that fill chapter after chapter that only a pre-pubescent female could possibly relate to.  Or maybe its the completely unsympathetic main character that forever dithers between two underdeveloped milk-toast males.  Lets not forget the impossible and inconsistent use of sci-fi technology where a society has nuclear weapons, the ability to make a wide variety of genetically altered beasts and flies around in hover crafts, but still devotes an entire segment of the population to "coal mining" and hunts with bows and arrows.  For anyone with an ounce of hunting or military knowledge, many of the scenes are actually laughably bad and poorly written. But I suppose that the most galling thing about this book is the final installment where the author basically runs out of ideas so she throws the kitchen sink at you in a series of ludicrous adventures where the main characters race toward an inevitable conclusion.  And then she unceremoniously kills off a main character to try to give her writing efforts some gravitas, if not an actual point.<br />  Now I don't expect LOTR or Game of Thrones detail in a book written for teenagers.  But even compared to other books like Harry Potter, Eragon, or Redwall this is trite.  And giving it a bleak ending doesn't excuse the multitude of sins one must wade through to get to that nihilistic outcome.  On the plus side, it was an awfully fast read, so at least the torture won't last long.