Wow. Like many others out here, I wanted to like this book. I had some reservations after Catching Fire, but middle books often lag a little in comparison to their earlier and later counterparts. This book was completely soulless. I am sorry. I know there is a reviewer going around telling everyone who gave the book a 2 that we shouldn't have expected a Disney ending and I am telling you I didn't expect one either. It cannot be denied that there is a stark difference  in the tone and character development between the Hunger Games and Mockingjay. If I didn't know better, I would say someone else wrote Mockingjay.<br /><br />I am glad that there those who found something uplifting in this book. I didn't. When I think of the difference between the death of Rue and the death of Prim, its like there is no connection between them. Rue was a symbolic version of Prim and what would have happened to her if she had been the one to participate in the Games. You feel her death and Kat's reaction to her death. She is devastated and yet she uses that emotion to continue forward. By the time Prim dies in this book, you no longer care. In fact, the writing is so poor, I wasn't even sure that she was dead. It is like this with all the characters. You no longer care.<br /><br />What is worse, is that major characters have undergone significant changes. Peeta has become a rabid hater of Katniss. Of course, by the end of the book he goes from wanting to kill her, to living next door to her peacefully, and then on to marriage. What? How did that occur? Was he healed in the Capitol? If so, how? We aren't even told how he survived the final battle in the Capitol. He just appears in 12 six months later as a totally subdued character.<br /><br />Gale is another person who starts to act out of character. Now, he isn't just a rebel soldier... he is a terrorist willing to kill children to win the war. I mean, setting off a bomb just to get people grouped together so that another bomb can go off and raise the death toll... this is textbook Al Qaeda... If Collins is in anyway implying that troops from civilized countries such as the US use this tactic, she is seriously deluded.<br /><br />Katniss becomes just a shell of her former self. It was like Collins found a pamphlet about Post Traumatic Stress Disorder in soldiers and wrote this new Katniss based on the information she found within it. Yes, war is a terrible thing, but so is long term oppression. Is Collins trying to say that political oppression is okay as long as you have just enough food to live and a place to hang your hat? Yes, it would be better if we could all just sit down and negotiate our freedom, but it doesn't work that way.  Personally, I really enjoy mine and am grateful to those who protect it. I found this whole portrayal of military life really insulting. What happened the Kat in the Hunger Games was morally reprehensible because it was forced on her against her will. The decision to fight as a rebel is a choice that she makes on her own.<br /><br />I could go on and on but I won't. I gave this a 2 because it is readable and I know all fans of the series will want to finish it. Just know that you are not alone if you find it disappointing. I understand from reading the comments that there is a movie version coming and if that is true, I will pass. I think I know what all of this will be turned into once Hollywood gets its hands on this. Sad ending to a great a story.