The Hunger Games series is a prime example of a trilogy that, even though it started off with enormous potential, has gone horribly, terribly wrong.  Sequels, eagerly anticipated though they may be, are often the bane of a truly great story line and, unfortunately, MockingJay is no exception.<br /><br />Where to begin?  The main character, Katniss Everdeen, lacked depth and consistency throughout the first two books, however that fact could be overlooked due to the sheer quality of storytelling.  Not so here, as the underdeveloped and inconsistent protagonist is woefully unequipped to carry a plot that can be best described as labored.  The true art in storytelling is that you do not actually TELL the reader what's happening you SHOW the reader.  MockingJay is plagued by too much TELLING, as the reader is forced to remain on the sidelines because Katniss can't seem to find a way to stay out of the hospital's recovery room.  Katniss should have been there, WE should have been there as the plot unfolded, however the most crucial events of the conflict are summed up to Katniss and the reader in quick concise paragraphs.<br /><br />As I read this book I continuously asked myself what was the author's purpose in writing this book?  Was it to tell the story of a desperate rebellion winning out against all odds? Was is to highlight the inner workings of a teenage girl's mind as she tries to choose between two loves?  Was it to reward the reader for allowing themselves to care about the characters and the poor belabored citizens of Panem?  By all means it should have been some combination of all of those things.  Instead the purpose seemed to be "let's just get it over with already".  There was not enough material in MockingJay to warrant the 390 pages it comprises, and the author clearly was struggling to bring all of her plot lines to a close whether gracefully or no.<br /><br />While Suzanne Collins is clearly a very talented author, it pains me to say she really under-delivered with this one.