Readers of Stephen King know that the Hunger Games was a derivative story that was borrowed from two of King's "Bachman" novellas, "The Long Walk" and "Running Man."  It also heavily leaned on material from Battle Royale - a story and movie (not sure which came first) where junior high school students are forced to kill each other on an island until only one is left.  So those who contend that Collins' concept for the Hunger Games is original are unfortunately mistaken.<br /><br />That being said, there can be no doubt that Collins took this storyline and improved upon it.  She managed to create three great turn-paging novels that are compelling for both teenagers and adults.  Central to the success of these books is the character development of Katniss.  Collins created a wonderful protagonist who is unaware of many of her considerable talents and the impression of strength that she projects.<br /><br />In the first two books, Katniss is presented as strong, smart, resourceful and attractive.  Although there is a ton of adventure and excitement in the first two novels, a big part of their appeal stems from the fact that Collins is telling a coming of age story about a young woman who is learning about herself and the extent of her abilities.  There are important lessons about self-reliance, confidence and the hidden power of being unassuming.<br /><br />Unfortunately, in Mockingjay, Collins departs from this compelling aspect of her first two novels. Instead of showing how Katniss continues to evolve into a smart and self-aware leader, Collins turns her into a pawn with emotional problems who is being used by both sides.  For some inexplicable reason, Collins seems intent on delivering a sophomoric lesson about the nature of evil governments and power.  While such issues can be highly interesting in the contect of a novel, Collins is not saying anything particularly deep or original.  And she does this at the expense of developing Katniss into a fully drawn woman who can handle the world on her own terms.  The full extent of Katniss' emotional degeneration is really not clear until the last 100 pages.  As a result, the sense of let down is strongest at the end of the novel.<br /><br />Bottom line:  Although Mockingjay is very readable and, like the first two books, has a great page turning quality, the conclusion is a bit disappointing and hollow.  If you've read the first two books, you will probably want to read this installment -- but do so with managed expectations.