With this series meeting its end I find myself at a bit of a crossroads. The tragedy that strikes in Mockingjay is so immense, so heartbreaking, and deep rooted that it required me to step back at moments and just breath. By no means would I expect or require a false portrayal of this story's end. I don't want to feel lied to anymore than Katniss does, but it was arguably the hardest book in the series to get through.<br /><br />The plot is thick and entrapping, not letting you go until the very end and even then, it still holds you hostage. The characters that we've grown attached to have come to suffer in some of the worst ways imaginable and for some, the fight will never be over. This story is sad yet eerily on point with what could very well be a scary reality. It isn't sugar coated or censored to save its audience heart-ship. This book is a testament to pain, suffering, and the cost of freedom.<br /><br />As far as characters go, I found it very saddening to watch Katniss lose herself and all that she loved to The Game. A game it seemed she could never fully escape. I watched helplessly as she suffered and fought against herself and others to find hope or love or anything worth holding onto. I've read in some review that she is viewed as a selfish girl without love in her heart. That she is weak or that she is cold and unlovable. I see Katniss and I can't help but disagree. Who, if put in her shoes, could ever come out as whole as she manages to? She never had the chance to figure out if her love for Gale was an evolving one. She was forced into extreme situations that made her question her love for him and then soon thereafter run into his arms for comfort.Peeta was a boy she never noticed but found could keep her alive. Did she love him? Yes, of course, in some way. But no matter how this story ended I see Katniss as a woman stripped of the ability to choose and love wholly. She must survive and that is all she knows how to do anymore.<br /><br />It's a sad story with a satisfying ending all things considered but I would argue that Katniss never made any choices in life but to stay alive. Not in anything, not even love and that in my eyes makes this series a true tragedy.<br /><br />So many people swoon over Peeta or Gale and I can see why they'd choose either but I couldn't stop myself from seeing this story through Katniss' eyes. They both played vital roles in her life but they both hurt her just the same as they kept her alive. She wasn't given the choice so as a reader I wasn't able to pick "a team" either. This story isn't about love, it's about survival. Survival of a race, a people, and a girl named Katniss Everdeen.