I finished this book in the wee hours of the morning after reading for 10 hours, the ending definitely left me with a lot of emptiness and mixed emotions.  Today, I went back and reread parts of the book just to try to clarify some things in my mind. There are SPOILERS in here.  I apologize for the length of this, but my mind is just reeling from this book.<br /><br />What I didn't like is that I didn't see the old Peeta.  I wanted Peeta to be rescued early in the story and be that rock for Katniss like he's always been.  It just broke my heart to see how his memories were hijacked and he was brainwashed to hate/kill Katniss.  When Katniss goes to meet him after he's been rescued I was expecting hugs and kisses, and instead Peeta tries to choke her to death.  I immediatly wanted Katniss to start helping him get those memories back and help him heal, but instead she ignores him and goes to district 2 and even when Peeta calls her ugly, mocks their relationship, and asks her about her relationship with Gale, she turns her back on him.  She doesn't try to even help him recover until Haymitch reminds her that they both made a promise to save Peeta and she's not living up to her end.  Then, she finally decides to help him.  I still didn't get a full sense of how much of his memories he recovered.  I wanted to see more interaction between him and Katniss like there was in book 1 and book 2.  I know SC wanted the message to be about the war, and how messy they are, but at the same time, I felt some attention should have been spent on showing Peeta and Katniss growing back together and rediscovering one another since it was developed in the first two books.<br /><br />I did get a sense early in the book that Katniss really did love Peeta, especially after her breakdown, and I wanted her to acknowledge that and not rely on what others were telling her.  Finnick, Prim, and Gale kept telling her that she loved Peeta but she never acknowledged it until that very quick ending. Peeta wore his heart on his sleeve in the first two books, and told her he loved her and she can't give him one "I love you."  Even when he was questioning her, and told her that he remembered about the bread and he said "I must have really loved you," and he asked her, "did you love me," her response was "other people keep telling me that I do."  Right then, I felt that she blew it.  Maybe if she told him that she loved him earlier that would have helped him with the healing process.<br /><br />I hated that Finnick and Prim had to die.  Just when Finnick found a litle bit of happiness it was taken away.  The purpose of Katniss going into THG in the first place was to protect Prim and then to see her die in the end after all that Katniss went through to save her was very disappointing, but I guess it was important for SC's overall message, and it allowed Katniss to see that Coin was no better than Snow.<br /><br />I hated how they made this trek all the way to the capital for Katniss to kill Snow, and had many deaths.  Instead of Katniss forging ahead with her plan after she sees Prim killed because the rebels were alreay there and could have helped she gets hurt and is back in the hospital.  Katniss spent way to much time in the hospital recovering from some injury and having a mental breakdown, instead of being more active.  I really wanted her to kick butt in this book, and I felt she was more on the sidelines and not in the game.<br /><br />My feelings about Gale.  After reading CF, I thought that Gale may end up with Madge because I wanted Peeta with Katnss but now after reading Mockingjay, I felt that Gale got the best deal out of anybody because he was always in control and knew what he wanted. Gale is definitely an amazing fighter and he has this war mentality about him.  I was so glad to see more of him and get an insight into who he was.  When I was reading more about his character I realized that I saw this fighting tendency in him in CF.  When he discovered that the rebellion was starting he refused to run away with Katniss and wanted to stay and fight.  Also, Gale had this strong hatred in him towards the capital that we saw in the first two books and he showed incredible leadership by leading as many people as he could to safety when the capital destroyed district 12.  Now thinking about it, there were no indications in any of the books that Gale was going to end up with Madge.  If he couldn't have Katniss, then he's going to do something else that he loves which is fighting, strategizing, or something to help start a new regime.  Like Katniss said in the end, "Gale had too much fire."  I hated how things ended with him and Katniss and this possibility that he was responsible for Prim's death.  Gale was too restless to ever be with Katniss, and we begin to see so many differences between them and start seeing them grow apart.  Especially when they were in District 2 and Gale wanted to bring down the nut killing all people inside and Katniss wanted them to leave a way for people to escape.  She tries to reason with him but can't.  Gale still wanted to be part of the fighting hence the fancy job in district 2, and Katniss had had enough.  Peeta was the calm to her fire and that was what she needed to survive.  I don't think that Gale was slacked in anyway.  It would have been nice to know what happened to him.<br /><br />Now, the ending.  I felt that it was too rushed.  I wanted some interaction between her and Peeta.  A few pages with them talking and reconciling.  Even though Katniss and Peeta were together in the end, this was by no way a happy ever after book or story.  They were both battled scarred physically and emotionally.  This was a pick up the pieces and go on with life the best way you can ending.  I am glad that Katniss finally felt comfortable enough to have children because she was adamant about not having children, but Peeta wanted them and I guess in a way this proves that she really does love him because she had to overcome some huge emotional obstacles in order to have them. The ending was too rushed.<br /><br />Again, I apologize for the length but my mind was reeling from this book, and I wanted to put my thougts out there.  I'm sure I will have more observations and opinions as I continue to grapple with this book. Overall, I didn't hate it, but I didn't love it liked I loved the first two books.