Similar to other reviewers, I was enthralled with Hunger Games, less so with Catching Fire, and finally, with Mockingjay I felt like I was being dragged through redundancy. I get that the brutality of war was a significant theme running throughout the trilogy, but in the end it boils down to telling an interesting story. Hunger Games told an interesting story with new ideas, and relatable characters. In Catching Fire, I felt like the author just wanted to develop her clever idea about the  clock layout during the hunger games. Catching Fire did little to advance the story begun in Hunger Games and I felt it was unnecessary - could have just gone to the third book from the first. During Mockingjay, we got more of Katniss going back and forth between Gayle and Peeta, Peeta and Gayle. This wavering went on for three books and Katniss never developed any self awareness - BORING! Maybe this boring psychological turmoil is appropriate given Katniss' relative youth and expected immaturity. It had the feeling of a "coming of age" theme but I never felt she came of age. I also grew tired of her constant tallying of what she "owed" to whom and how she felt she could never possibly pay them back. Another reviewer commented on all the briefly introduced characters in Mockingjay that were subsequently killed. Meet Team 451 - new characters who will be dead in 15 pages. Then there were all the creative ways the author came up with to kill people. She spent more time developing creative weapons than developing interesting characters. Maybe that was the point; in war, after a while, it doesn't really matter how people die, they will die, and the world becomes numb to the details, including the individual victims. If that was the intention, then the author could have spent more time developing the sense of grand loss. Instead she summed it up by saying Katniss' mother couldn't return to District 12 because of the grief she felt. Okay, whatever. There were other ideas that would have been more interesting to develop - such as Coin's role, fighting between the districts, Gayle and Katniss' changing relationship from childhood playmates to mature adults growing apart, etc. etc. Once I finished the Hunger Games I felt I needed to finish the trilogy; I wanted to see how it ended because I developed an interest in the characters. By the end of Mockingjay I didn't much care about the characters or the world in which they lived. The epilogue? Whatever. Katniss had babies (isn't that a requirement for a happy ending?) with Peeta, and the babies play in the pretty meadow that hides the mass grave of the citizens of District 12. Cue eerie music.