This whole thing is going to be a spoiler, just FYI.<br />Is it just me or did anyone else seriously find themselves stuck underneath a pile of war rubble and come out with an incurable headache. I am assuming what Collins meant to happen was us to understand that this is indeed a war story and that it isn't supposed to be happily ever after and easy to the point.<br />Unfortunately, I feel sad that I even picked up the third book. I was lost and found myself skimming and forgetting what I read. The whole thing is nothing but descriptions of war and you find it very very hard to visualize where Katniss is and whether she is just completely losing her mind. At parts you were supposed to be scared or on edge, I think, I felt like, how did we get here? I even had thoughts while continuing to read, that Suzanne Collins was honestly on acid the entire third book. The first two, I thought, she has an amazing imagination, and that is how she came up with some of the creatures in the games, but the entire third book was just a big giant blurred out acid-fied pile of you name it...crap. The only thing memorable about this book was the fact that her sister dies, she goes back to 12 and she ends up with Peeta after being ruled insane from a trial you never see after killing the president. I feel like these ideas are what Collins was aiming for while writing the book...but she got so lost in trying to create a war story that she forgot that this book can't go on forever......you would think that you would be satisfied that she chose Peeta, but all I can think is, Gale disappeared...out of sight, out of mind and she just chose what she had left to work with...I would have rather her heart break and FEEL something for once seeing Gale fall for someone else and not just assuming he left on some "awesome" job that was more important than his apparent love for her.<br />You could say that the majority of readers read this book to see who Katniss would end up with, and truthfully, yeah, that was the reason why I continued to read after desperately trying to finish this third book. It totally lacks the visualization and connection between Katniss and ALL of the other characters, including her connection with Haymitch. I would assume you were supposed to cry with Katniss when she finally takes into account that her sister is dead, but she had no connection with Prim the entire book, so honestly, I didn't even care. Im going to have to give this a thumbs down and stop recommending it to people like I did after the first one