As most of the reviews I have read, I agree with being disappointed in the last of the trilogy. By the time I get to the Epilogue I need to take a zoloft.  I get it, it's about war, revolution, and not knowing who to trust. Yet, the third book seems to slog through so much military lingo; do they want her fighting, on film trying to encourge the rebels...She and Gale seem to just wing it with bows and arrows. She has a film crew following her, but it doesn't seem too plausible. It's not a film crew battle ready. Some how the gamesmakers were more creative with what the tributes encountered than what the capitol had rigged in the streets of thier own city. Really, mutts took out people in a subway system who were armed with army battle gear?<br />Where the heck is Peeta, he is missing in most of the book. He seems to be the voice of reason and Katniss knows by the first third of the book that he is the guy who makes her a better person. Gale is still a close friend, but he has gotten caught up in the invention of snares on a grander scale that produce the most damage. Regardless of who the victems are. (Obvious when they are facing the Mountain in District Two). Katniss is badly burned and in some sort of drug induced state through most of the book. We hear of the Capitol falling, but no news of what is happening in the streets. What is being done to stabalize the country? The very person Katniss has been trying to protect for the very first reaping is Prim who is gone in a flash. Any of the Characters who were colorful and positive are dead.  Katniss is in a burn unit healing, but so is Peeta, what, they didn't speak, see each other, what? Why is Katniss recouperating in the Presidents house? Weird. The only positive thought; which took me a couple of days, was the thought by shooting Coin and the death of Snow quickly following was that she had took out two dictators. Yet, even after that I still kept thinking about small details that were left hanging. What happened to the pearl Peeta gave her? Katniss has hung on to it from book two into book three.(Joanna is curious what is in Katniss's drawer.) Where did it go? Why was Peeta, the very charming personality not on the radio talking to the rebels, Katniss is the fighter, but Peeta could get people's attention. District 13 had managed to get broadcast sent to most of the districts;they had the technology to interupt Snow's speeches. What did Coin have to gain by sending Prim into the frontline battle at the Presidents house? Where was Prim's Mother when that decision was made?<br />Then the Epilogue, it's as if the author ran out of time. Ok, I understand that tramatic events mess people up, but really. Nightmares and flashbacks are plausible, but it's as if Katniss was made to have children. Questioning the future and deciding to have children is difficult for most parents, but couldn't she act like she enjoyed them just a little! She is disapointed in Gale and perhaps he played a part in devising the very explotions that killed Prim, I could see how it would be hard to forget that. This is not a book for a fairy tale ending,and it does not resemble a love triangle either, but I think the main charcters deserved to be shown in a more positive light instead of just a bunch of hollow messed up people.