I'm a twelve year old. In other words, I'm who this book is intended for. And  found it SICK. I'm utterly disgusted by Suzanne Collins, who actually came up with this perverse idea. People like this book because it shocks them. Okay. I'm fine with that. Because the only other option is that they enjoy and anticipate each death, as readers, but also as would the Capitol audience. And don't tell me that's impossible, because people ued to pay and hire people to fight to the death as gladiators. But back to the subject; you like the book because it shocks you. But why does it shock you. Usually, when something shocks you, it is because it is a terrible, wrong, disgusting and revolting something. And this is in no way an exception. So those people who rated it five stars? Two options. Either you're dense or you're cruel.<br /><br />The characters were pathetic. Every single one of them was a coward. If they'd had any guts, they would have refrained from slaughering each other. This would have made them people with principles, a sense of right and wrong. They would have had the courage to brave the wrath of the Capitol. They would have had the courage to die, to avoid becoming a killer. Had but one person refused to fight, this person would have inspired a revolution. If the districts were still living in oppresion, they had no one but themselves to blame. Katniss was an arrogant, selfish, and self centered person, if you could even call her that. Peeta was stupid and shallow.  Not even remotely likeable. And all the other tributes weren ' t even portrayed as people, but as killing machines with names to make their deaths more excusable.<br /><br />Don't even get me started on the games themselves. SC has a brutal imagination. The whole thing made me feel sick. So I shall avoid the topic, as  imagine any human with feelings can very well guess what I choose not to relate.<br /><br />I hated all the events preceeding thr games. Oh, so you have a 'brilliant stylist', do you? I don't quite know why that phrase irked me so much. But I do know why Katniss talking in her interview, and civilly at that, did. She would have been so much more likeable to me if she told the audience to shove off. And the fact that the tributes go for an 'angle' and can't even act like their own selves during their interview, is beyond revolting. You've got to think, they have a pretty high  chance of dying. Then do they want to be mourned for who they are or who they pretended to be?<br /><br />My opinin of SC is low. As in LOW. Her book is sick and disturbing. I have no doubt SC would act just as the caracters in her book did should she be put in the same situation, and that only lowers my opinion of her. And the fact that she even thought up the perverted concept of pitting children against each other on live television is horrifying to me.<br /><br />DO NOT READ THIS BOOK. Not because its a bad book or a waste of time, which it most certainly is, but because it will do irrevocable damage to your concept of courage and value and belief in the goodness of humanity should you actually like it. If you must read it, do not buy it. SC does not deserve her money, which you are about to find out for yourself.