I hated this book! It's been months since I read it and I am still upset. I invested time and money into 3 books just to get THAT ending?! Seriously, I can't help but wonder if Ms. Collins suffered a major crisis during the writing of this book, had a horrific event take place in her childhood or if she is off her meds. Whatever the case, I am certain that a cat peed in her cereal the morning she wrote about Finnick's death. That awful, you say? Yes! and then it all went crashing down hill from there. Impossible you say? One would think..but this author likes shock factor and outdoing one misery with the next, and the next, and the next....<br /><br />Usually when there is such graphic and detailed death and destruction, an author offsets it with something equally as heroic and redeeming in order for the reader to be rewarded for their investment into the depths of hell. But not so with this author. There was lots of awful, and not much of anything else. I didn't feel we were given anything in this story or rewarded at all by reading the book. It just went from bad to worse, to will someone please just slit my wrists and put me out of my misery?!<br />If I wanted a bigger downer than this, I suppose I could have watched an Animal Planet expose' on the clubbing and killing of baby seals...NO THANK YOU!<br /><br />The author can write. I will admit she is very talented. I think she needs to keep a better perspective, however, and not try to beat us over the head with how awful war is and that nothing good comes from it. That is just not the case. My sister in law really had to pester me before I gave in and read this hot new book where kids are forced to kill each other. What an awful premise! Sis said it was really good, however, and I would like it. I should have known better. It truly was well written, but just as awful, senseless and infuriating as I thought it would be. I will steer clear of this authors books in the future. I would have to pick up a script for anti-depressants in order to make it through another book this miserable.