I was absolutely sobbing near the end of this book. I felt absolutely gutted and destroyed. There was blow after blow after blow. I kept thinking "When is this book going to end? I can't take much more". I think the author did a brilliant job in that way. This book was a commentary on war. She gets it. She took you there and she showed you every horrible thing, every worst nightmare come to light.<br /><br />My biggest issue is that this trilogy is said to be written for "young adults". That usually makes me think of middle school/high school kids being the main targets. The main character is a teen aged girl. There is a "love triangle" which will draw the girls like bees to flowers. That is where the "young adult" label ends. All the young kids flocking to these books will all be in the mindset of Twilight. The Hunger Games movie has created a massive hype and brought more kids in. Twilight-esque romance is NOT what they are getting. This book is devastating. It's not a happy ending. It's not an exciting resolution. It's a death march where the lead character herself begins to wish for and actively seek out death. As I was reading it I kept thinking "There is  NO WAY I am allowing my 12 year old step daughter to read this book. No way  on this planet would I expose her to this." She is too young to grasp the commentary, to understand that the extreme violence has a meaning and is meant to show the atrocities of war. All she will know is that characters she has been lead to love and care about are being destroyed in the most grotesque ways possible. I don't have a problem with books like this. I think they are important, but I think that there needs to be some care taken in the audience that is being targeted. These books are not like Twilight. They are not like Harry Potter. Even the Harry Potter books had dark themes and there were characters killed that were much beloved, but it was not like this. I hope that parents understand that these books bear no likeness to those series whatsoever.<br /><br />Someday my step daughter will be old enough to understand these books. She read the first one without my knowing what she was really reading and was she dancing with glee when Peeta and Katniss kissed. That was all she was thinking about. That was the story she was grabbing a hold of. She was thinking "Happy Ending". As the premise of the books seemed awfully violent I read them before she started on the second book. I am glad I did. I think all parents should read these books before allowing their children to start them. My step daughter is still young and her eyes are filled with innocent romance and thoughts of first love. I will NOT allow that fragile bubble to be shattered by allowing her to read the second and third books. Not yet. I want her to stay young and innocent for a little while longer. I don't want her to be shattered and gutted the way I was.