Like everyone else, I loved the first two books!  I liked this one as well, although I do feel dissatisfied about the pieces of this book that are "missing". I read the entire series in 4 days, so it must have been pretty gripping.  However, I am truly surprised that this series is considered young adult fiction.  The overall theme of this last book is very dark and parts were more disturbing than any of the adult horror fiction I've read.  I would definitely recommend that parents read this book first before handing it over to your 12 year old.<br /><br />*Now for the part with Spoilers*<br /><br />I'm open minded when reading and have no argument with who Katniss ended up with or how drastically much the characters changed in the course of this last book (like I have any say, ha).  I wasn't looking for a fairy tale and given the circumstances, I think the book ended in the best way it could, but I really do feel a little cheated out of some of the story about how they got there though.  How did Peeta suddenly get over most of his issues enough to be with her in the end...I don't doubt that he could, but after being with them through this whole journey, I would have liked to experience more of what finally brought them back together.  As some of the other reviews have said, she really did spend a lot of the time hiding in closets and drugged and if there is time for describing her hiding places in detail, I would have preferred for a little more time to be spent explaining what happened after Katniss shot the president.  I understand why she did it, I understand why she 'agreed' to the games, I even understand how her and Gale could have grown apart and that he was passionate about his hatred of the Capitol from the beginning, but I would have been more satisfied with this book as a whole if I had been able to read a little more about the culmination and ending of this war that she lost herself fighting, instead of just getting a blurb about it when she was in the hovercraft at the end.  I thought the Hunger Games book was much better than the movie, but I find myself hoping that the final movie might help wrap things up a little more fully.