This book was so different from the first two; those I couldn't put down but Mockingjay, well, I had a hard time finishing it.  It was so dang depressing.  First of all, the characters that I'd come to know and care about were not the same people.  The things I loved about Katniss in The Hunger Games and Catching Fire were her strength and wisdom.  Those are missing in this book.  She acts like a moody teenager - rebellious, whiny, weak-minded, shirking responsibilities, hiding from everyone and no-one - she wore on me quickly.  Gale did not match the image I had constructed of him while reading the first two books: a quiet, strong loner; here he is a bloodthirsty warmonger.  And don't even get me started on Peeta.  What Collins did to Peeta is completely unforgivable.<br /><br />Secondly, the book is a jumble of action and boredom.  Some points that seem to be important to the plot are glossed over and others are rushed and not explained well.  The pace of the story is frenetic at times and then crawls over the next scene which makes reading it unpleasant. Then throw in the gratuitous deaths and mutilations of many secondary characters that I had grown to care about and it almost feels like a slap in the face.  Awful, awful to read.  I felt emotionally distant from this book and I really didn't care what happened to Katniss in the end.  Which I suppose is a good thing since the ending is utterly ridiculous.<br /><br />The Hunger Games was plotted so well and, in contrast, Mockingjay is just a mess.  I think Ms. Collins should have taken more time to write it, or her editors should have done a better job with the pace and the character consistency.  With one book they managed to turn a gripping series into a total disappointment.  I can't believe this is the same author.  The Hunger Games was a fantastic read, Catching Fire was a decent sequel, Mockingjay was, well, a travesty.  It could have been so much more.  Do yourself a favor and stop at book 1.  Let your imagination take you to life after Katniss' and Peeta's win in the arena.  You will be much better off.