I absolutely LOVED the first and second books. Katniss was a strong, independent heroine who could take care of herself and really didn't need anyone else. She understood the way the world was, accepted it, and did what she had to to keep herself and the people she loved alive. Catching Fire came as a bit more of a disappointment to me, when she began falling in love with Peeta (for no apparent reason other than his wonderful blond hair, blue eyes, and ability to bake things, which aren't legitimate reasons in the first place) and becoming more dependent. Even with this, I had a lot of hope for the series, especially at the end when Gale told her there was no longer a District 12.<br /><br />Then came Mockingjay. Whatever independence and strength Katniss had was gone, leaving an empty shell of cliche depressed teenage girl. She beat herself up over and over again about Peeta being taken by the Capitol, and it seemed like the only thing that mattered to her in any sense was getting him back. When he does come back, he becomes everything to her, and she pretty much disregards everyone else in her life. She still keeps trying to convince herself she loves Gale, but I don't think she ever did once Peeta came along. I felt that Mockingjay lost a lot of its potential to put the emphasis on the war and violence themes of the book, and turned into a cliche romance novel for giddy teens to pour their hearts into.<br /><br />I felt pretty satisfied with what elements of war and violence were there, though. I think that the way Katniss was pushed around and treated like a pawn was very realistic, where Collins could have made her the leader of everything who called the shots, in which case I would've been disappointed. What I DIDN'T find realistic is how Katniss just took it. She could have been so much more independent and actually questioned what she was being asked to do, but she didn't. She sat around all day moping over Peeta.<br /><br />What really annoyed me was Gale. Katniss treated him like the rebound guy, and then when Peeta came back to her she pretty much left Gale to rot. When the bombs were dropped and Prim died, it was worse, because even when she knew that it was Coin who dropped the bombs, she blamed Gale for it. At the end, he left and went to District 2, and she assumed that he was over her and happy with his fancy job and new girlfriend. I think that if Suzanne Collins was going to give him this crappy of an ending, she should've just killed him off earlier in the book.<br /><br />The absolute most disappointing thing about Mockingjay, though, was the very ending. It was cliche. Katniss ends up with Peeta, who's perfect in every way, and has wonderful little children, and they enlighten the kids with stories of their morbid past and memories of the Games. Katniss not only became a shell, never gaining her feeling of self back even when she had children, but she lost her values. She let Peeta talk her into having kids, which she never intended to do. Some people would probably say "well, it's safe for her to have kids now, a new world", right? I don't think that. It's still the aftermath of war, there's a lot of things that could happen making life for her children suck. If Peeta even spent the time (which was what, 20, 30 years?) convincing her to have kids, would he really be the right choice? If he couldn't respect that she didn't want to have kids, and spent that long trying to chance her mind, should she have married him?<br /><br />I think everything I hate about the book ultimately came back to Peeta. Since the first book, I've really, really disliked him. First, he falls in love with her when he's like 7 years old, and manages to hold onto that love (which when he's in grade school, he seriously cannot fall in love. He would be far too young to even understand the concept of such things.) up until the Games. He's perfect in every way, just like every other love interest in every other book that every other teenage girl will fall in love with. In Catching Fire, he gave the cold shoulder to Katniss, without any reason. Sure, she lied about loving him in the Games, but it was for survival, I think she had every right to do so. He makes her feel guilty for not returning his feelings, and isn't fair in the least. And then, in Mockingjay, when he's brainwashed into HATING her, trying to kill her, he miraculously becomes cured. After that hijacking, I don't think it's possible for him to ever love her again. He can barely even remember knowing her.<br /><br />There are two things I distinctly liked about Mockingjay. The first is when Prim is killed. I'm pretty fond of irony, and the fact that Prim was the reason for the entire series to have been started, only to be killed in the end says a lot to me. The second is when she kills Coin, and in turn how Snow died. I like how the line was severely blurred regarding whether Coin was good or bad, and in the end Katniss killed her without caring which was which. I think that is was far more fitting for Snow to die laughing than to be executed.<br /><br />Mockingjay had a great series behind it, a great writer, and a great idea. In the end, though, it was executed poorly and Collins could've done a lot better.