- I was hooked on these books immediately as I started reading the first one. I thoroughly enjoyed that one and took one day off to think it through before starting the next book. The next book is brilliant as well, it's full of surprises and keeps you hanging on to every word - might I add, all of these books are incredibly exciting, in a way where you literally cannot put them down until you've finished reading them - but the third book was a big disappointment. I really like the overall theme of the third book, it's very exciting and all but then the absolute worst thing happened; the author rushed the ending. The last part of the book, maybe even the last half of it, felt so rushed I could barely be bothered to read it. This was a major deal breaker for me, and brings the overall rating of these books down, in my opinion. It felt like the last book wasn't in any way "symmetrical" to the two first books; the odd one out and not in a good way.<br />- Another thing that I found a bit annoying was the old "one girl, two boys, who will she choose?!" part of the trilogy. I enjoy reading young adult fiction to take my mind off things without having to focus massively on what I'm reading, but this stuff is just getting too old! Come on. I really found that annoying and unnecessary.<br />- Overall, I enjoyed reading the books, they are massively exciting and leads you into a new world that is very fascinating, but you can definitely tell that these are written for teenagers and young adults. And the last book ruined it for me. I will most like read them again, as I do with most books, but my immediate reaction after finishing the last book was disappointment.<br />- I highly recommend this trilogy to any teenager or young adult (or grown up) looking for a fascinating new universe to read about, books filled to the brim with suspense and an easy to read book series. I really love this series, it's an amazing world to enter!<br />- Another tiny downer was the font sizing problems I experienced reading them on my Kindle, and I've read that other's have had the same problems. That definitely needs to be fixed.<br />- ENJOY!