DON'TLIKE SPOILERS DON'T READ!!!!!!!!!!!<br /><br />I fell in love with this series from the first line of The Hunger Games. I love the concept, because its so twisted and it makes me think and replay scenarios in my head. You are cast in to a world of bordering extremes, the Capitol with its futuristic technology and outlandish fashion and decadance; then you have the districts,many so poor that their technology has barely if actually evolved the use of electricity. I was engrossed in the development of Katniss' character. You really get the sense that she is carrying the weight of the world on her shoulders. The actually games gutwrenching and thrilling. This coupled with Katniss' "relationship" with Peeta, and the fallout from the end of the games leave you craving the second book.<br /><br />As expected Catching Fire more than delivered. We got to see what it was like readjusting to life outside of the games. I thought Collins did a great job on the love triangle angle, but what she really did great at was in the building tension after Katniss' stunt with the poison berries in the last book. Setting the stage for the real spark that leads to the dissent of the districts. This and the start of the Quater Quell just fits so perfectly, because no matter how hard Katniss tries to take control and fix things they just get worse.<br /><br />This brings us the Mockingjay, the last book. I previously wrote a review that I swiftly took down, because in all honesty I was dissappointed in this last book. I have to agree with some other reviewers that the character development was lacking. None of the character seemed like the characters we were used to from the first two books. I was put off by how much time Katniss' spent drugged up or injured, and the story dragged in many places. Some of the things, like the concept of the pods, confused me, and overall nothing seemed true to the first two books.<br /><br />I was however receptive to finding out how  much of a puppet Katniss' really was even if she wasn't so keen on it herself. I thought that fit perfectly in the plot. The fact that both sides of the war we using her for their own agenda will not be lost on the audience. However even knowing that she is just a pawn the ending of the third book was totally unaccpetable to me. I was completely fine wit the death of the "New" president considering how she manipulated Katniss, I was okay with the death of Prim (EVEN THOUGH IT WAS COMEPLETELY ABBRUPT, UNEXPECTED, AND REALLY DIDDN'T FIT), and I was also fine with the conclusion of the love triangle. What upset me the most is how Katniss just fades  into the background after the revolution is over and she kills the new, but equally manipulative president. They just lock her away in a hotel room for a few months until they have and complete her trial (WITHOUT HER THERE)and ship her off to exile in district 12. You would think someone so pivotal to the rebellion, no matter how much of a puppet she was would get the satisfation of aiding in her own trail, even if she hadn't wanted to defend herself. Katniss' last impression on the people of Panem was way to lackluster.<br /><br />I LOVED THE FIRST TWO BOOKS. I'm not saying thethird doesn't have its good points too, but it takes a while to get to them, but in the end you are left with a sense of incompleteness.