First, let me say that I thoroughly enjoyed the first two books of the trilogy.  The Hunger Games and Catching Fire are incredibly creative, well-designed, and compelling.  As I began Mockingjay, the third and final book, I anticipated any number of possible directions that Collins could have taken with the plot, with the character development, and with the ultimate statement, or universal theme statement, as we English teachers like to call it.  I was genuinely intrigued and excited to read this book.<br /><br />That said, I can hardly be more disappointed by the result.  Peeta is lost and he won't return because of the damage that has been done.  However, the reader is hopeful that we'll see that moment which lets us know he will make it.  We never see that, but somehow, magically, in the end, he must be all right, because he is married to Katniss and they have children.  How did this happen?  What event or events healed him?  His love for Katniss?  Her love for him?  The readers are left in the dark by this outcome and where it came from.  President Snow was evil and manipulative, but towards the end, Collins gives us a small crack to peek through into the possibility that he may actually be more truthful than President Coin, who shows us her manipulative, controlling side.  Exactly how far Coin is corrupt, evil and/or deserving of her death, we don't ever really find out.  We know Katniss kills her, perhaps to stop the replacing of one tyranny with another, but the resolution is largely left to the reader to create.  There are just too many blanks to fill, and we need more from Collins to take us to our final inferences and conclusions.  Katniss herself is our strongest character, but she proves far too frail to endure, and, in the end, she crumbles.  Was her final arrow one that was shot out of strength or weakness or insanity?<br /><br />Katniss finally dissolves into nothingness, not caring for herself or others but somehow getting married and raising children in an almost catatonic state of existence that is at best meaningless.  Has she healed?  Obviously not.  Is she emotionally and spiritually damaged?  Without a doubt.  Will Peeta's love heal her in time?  There's no way to tell, because we don't know how Peeta got to a stable place, or even if he ever did get there.  And what of Gale?  Has he transformed into part of the killing machine?  We are given enough to infer that he has, but what was it inside or outside of him that pushed him beyond the capacity for compassion?<br /><br />Prim's death seems to be pointless and is never explained.  How was it she was put into that square and why would Coin put her there?  The motive for her to be there or for her to be PUT there in harm's way escapes me.  As readers, we never gain any further insight into Prim or the meaning of her death.  It's just one more horrific act of pointless violence that pushes Katniss into her shattered final state.<br /><br />And that shattered final state begs the question that is quite damning of the entire trilogy.  The trilogy is written in first person.  FIRST PERSON.  We are carried through all three books by the narrator, Katniss, as she relates her story.  We share her wonder, her compassion, her sense of outrage, her deep thought and private moments, her hurts, her confusions, her dreams, and her past, present, and hopes for the future.  In order to do this--to relate the entire story that has occurred--she has to be in a state that is capable of relating the tale.  Katniss at the end of the story could NEVER have told this story.  She is too empty, too void, too uncaring, to have the ability to weave this story. Yet Collins has chosen first person point of view when that person is incapable of telling the story.  For this story to have worked at all, Collins had to use third person, as her main character, Katniss, ends up incapable of being the strong narrator revealed in books one and two.  The narration cannot be stronger than the character's ability to narrate, and let's face it: Katniss was not capable of narrating such an intricate, thoughtful, far-ranging tale at the end of Mockingjay.<br /><br />Ultimately, we are left with nothing.  No triumph.  No defeat.  Just pointlessness.  Is that the point?  If so, that's truly a shame.  None of the developed characters teach us anything, and we learn nothing about ourselves in the process.  There are great books that take us on a journey to the realization that war is hell, that tyranny is evil, that the loss of our humanity is a tragedy beyond words.  This work does not take us on any of those journeys.  It takes us partway on a journey to a place that we never find, teaching us a lesson we can never learn.  There may be those who say that IS the message/theme/meaning of this book.  I'm not one of them.<br /><br />William Faulkner, accepting the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1950, said most appropriately, "Our tragedy today is a general and universal physical fear so long sustained by now that we can even bear it. There are no longer problems of the spirit. There is only the question: When will I be blown up?"  That is the tragedy of The Hunger Games trilogy.  Its point is the fear that we will be blown up and that will be a tragedy.<br /><br />Faulkner went on to say, "Because of this, the young man or woman writing today has forgotten the problems of the human heart in conflict with itself which alone can make good writing because only that is worth writing about, worth the agony and the sweat."  Collins gives us characters who are in the throes of this conflict.  Katniss cannot choose between Gale and Peeta, between war and peace, between fighting and running away, between survival and sacrifice.  As readers, we hunger for the resolution of these conflicts.<br /><br />Faulkner maintained that a great writer bases his/her writing on "the old verities and truths of the heart, the old universal truths lacking which any story is ephemeral and doomed - love and honor and pity and pride and compassion and sacrifice. Until he does so, he labors under a curse. He writes not of love but of lust, of defeats in which nobody loses anything of value, of victories without hope and, worst of all, without pity or compassion. His griefs grieve on no universal bones, leaving no scars. He writes not of the heart but of the glands."  Sadly, The Hunger Games trilogy ends (in Mockingjay) by discounting the worth of these universal truths and takes the reader to a realization that none of this matters, because we will end up dead or crazy or manipulated or mute.<br /><br />Mockingjay seems to be exactly what Faulkner spoke out against when he ended his speech by saying, "I decline to accept the end of man. It is easy enough to say that man is immortal simply because he will endure: that when the last ding-dong of doom has clanged and faded from the last worthless rock hanging tideless in the last red and dying evening, that even then there will still be one more sound: that of his puny inexhaustible voice, still talking. I refuse to accept this. I believe that man will not merely endure: he will prevail. He is immortal, not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance. The poet's, the writer's, duty is to write about these things. It is his privilege to help man endure by lifting his heart, by reminding him of the courage and honor and hope and pride and compassion and pity and sacrifice which have been the glory of his past. The poet's voice need not merely be the record of man, it can be one of the props, the pillars to help him endure and prevail."  Unfortunately, Ms. Collins has not learned these things.  The potential of the first two books is betrayed by the fatal flaws of the third book:  the loose ends left by both plot and characters, and the fractured choice of first person point of view in which to tell the story; and ultimately, the conclusion that the struggle of "the human heart in conflict with itself" is meaningless and doesn't really NEED to be resolved.