I so wanted to love this book.  So much so that I took the afternoon off from work to read it.  I knew if I waited until after work, I'd be up half the night trying to finish it.  But now that I've read it, I have to admit I can't love it nearly as much as Hunger Games and Catching Fire.  I am disappointed by the level of gore in this book.  They body count went beyond ridiculous.  Sure, the first two books had violence too, but they had something else to redeem it - Katniss's humanity and her deep love for her friends and family.  She seemed to lose all of that in Mockingjay.  She didn't seem to love anybody.  Indeed, the best part of Mockingjay was Katniss's visit to District 8 when she was able to fight for the helpless and inspire people.  I would like to have seen much more of that throughout the book.<br /><br />It's almost as if the author, Collins, was so taken aback by the swirling excitement created by "Gale verses Peeta" in Catching Fire, she decided to completely kill that story line, which was probably the reason the vast majority of the readers wanted to read the book.  I heard Collins say in an interview after Catching Fire came out that Katniss was only sixteen and she didn't know what she wanted, as if being young made it impossible to have real feelings of love or rational thoughts.  I think that assumption was a mistake.  I was happy Peeta survived and ended up with Katniss eventually, but it wasn't because they loved each other anymore.  It was because they were both damaged goods and no one else could stand to be around them.  Not a very satisfying conclusion at all.<br /><br />I'm sure Gale fans will be equally disappointed with his fate.  I think if the author wanted Gale to become a war-monger, she should have done it in a big way instead of never really answering the questions of "Is he? Or not? Did he? Or not?"  Do all dystopian novels have to have a grim ending?  Our hero triumphs, sort of, but not really because she's scarred forever.  She doesn't even save Prim, which was why all this started in the first place.  I'm sure it's meant to be an example of why war is stupid, but it doesn't make for satisfying fiction.  I'll always give Collins high marks for her writing skill, which is awesome.  There's no doubt she's extremely talented.  I just wish she had used that skill to show us how love really can overcome all odds.