When a book starts in the first person, it typically tends to suck. This trilogy is no different. The author seems to put herself in the shoes of the main character so I just came out really disliking the author as well. In the first book, the protagonist, Katniss, tends to be good at things for no reason. Her usual talents are exaggerated (like being able to hit a squirrel in the eye with a bow and arrow. Really!? how small is the arrow head!? If you hit a squirrel in the head you basically destroyed the head and there would be no way to really know if you got it in the eye. but I'm just saying..)and she is too much of a too good all around character with few flaws, except for being too mentally slow on the obvious. Its like the author wanted to make up a problem or puzzle of some sort for the protagonist to overcome, but most of the answers were just too obvious to the reader, making Katniss just come out stupid. Also the fact the Katniss doesn't really make any attempt to choose either Peetah (might as well call him Peter) or the other guy, who used to be her best friend. Like a typical girl when it comes to options she is indecisive, and just shrugs her options of being with either one on the selfish idea that whoever she is with is probably the only person who she will ever see again, instead of waiting it out in hope of the best. However she is self righteous so she doesn't have sex with either, she just sleeps with them. I'm sure in real life she would wake up to morning wood. The writing is subpar with few details. I feel like a freshmen in High School wrote the book. For that reason alone I give the book a 2/5. I don't even know why they made it into a movie. Maybe so little girls think they can do anything men can do physically. Part of the whole political correctness on the sexes. In real life no girl could ever shoot down a jet with a bow and arrow, even if it had an explosive tip on it and then come out saying some inspiring words to a conveniently placed camera crew. There are better books out there. (mistborn trilogy)