I very much enjoyed the first two books in this series, despite any technical critiques I may have had. The stories were real and the characters oozed humanity, which is why I think it became so difficult to create the conclusion to the story.<br /><br />Early on, Collins let us know that Katniss's life was never going to be a happy one, and this book continues that trend. We follow the main character on a journey following her experiences in the Hunger Games and we watch as things continuously spiral out of control, yet everything still remains linked to that eternal notion that human beings can be very, very bad and very, very evil.<br /><br />While that central theme remains a troubling one as you continue to turn the pages, I found that any message I could take away from this book was buried too far under a plot that got a bit out of control and descriptions that were handed to us on a silver platter. Collins, unlike in her other two books in this series, began to hand-feed us explanations and metaphors that really didn't require a guided tour. For instance, a particularly important revelation is made about halfway into the book about the family cat, and his inability to catch the bright spot generated by a flashlight and how this mirrors Katniss's own struggles. Rather than allow the reader to interpret this message, Collins spends several paragraphs using forced, unpolished self-narrative from Katniss to tell us how this cat's struggle is also her struggle. It reads in a manner like she had no faith in us to get this message ourselves. Perhaps we wouldn't have, but it wasn't necessary because Collins never fails to let us know how conflicted Katniss is as a character. We didn't need the cat story to provide that level of detail; it was already quite well established.<br /><br />In addition, the difficulty of telling the story of a revolution becomes very prominent in this book. Though it was often a bit simplified through teenage emotions and an all-too-present love triangle theme, the book progresses to an extremely riveting final act, in which Katniss is FINALLY forced to truly confront the evil of humanity she has been discovering for 2 and 2/3 books. She has certainly experienced that evil and suffered consequences from it, but never before has she truly had to sit down and make a decision about it. Every action she has taken to this point was a decision generated by very jarring circumstances that would likely make anyone act the way she did. The conclusion of the book offers us a chance to see Katniss taking her destiny into her own hands, finally, and making a true decision in which she has to weigh the costs of taking a human life versus her own need for survival. Perhaps that is the ultimate moment these books have been pushing us to, but it was a bit of struggle to get there through this third novel.<br /><br />Overall, as I said, I very much enjoyed the first two books, and I think my negative comments are really more based on the idea that the first two novels are considerably better than this one. I recognize the difficulty Collins faced with this novel, in that she had to give us closure on the character of Katniss as well as some sort of closure on this screwed up society, but too much of this book focuses on the completely unimportant love story and the establishment of a rebellion that really isn't all that interesting because all the good moral debates about that very rebellion don't come into focus until the final chapters.<br /><br />To conclude, I may have some harsh words for this book, but to any readers who would consider reading this: do it! I liked the book, just not as much as the other two. If, like me, you find the first half of the book to be a bit of struggle, please push on, because the conclusion is worth it, and you deserve to know what happens.