Some spoilers below.<br /><br />I was so excited to read this book after Catching Fire, which I devoured in one day. That one left me eagerly anticipating this final book and wondering how all the different plots and subplots were going to be wrapped up. After reading it in one sitting last night, I have to say I feel fairly empty and somewhat disappointed.<br /><br />I understand it's a novel about war, war is hard, war changes people, and I appreciate that the author didn't shy away from some truly horrible events and the hopelessness that accompanies them (though killing Prim - the ENTIRE reason Katniss got herself into the situation in the first place - made it all almost seem worthless; the one thing she wanted to do was save her sister, and it made it seem like all her efforts and self-sacrifice were for naught..), but a lot of the soul seemed to be sucked out of this book. The final bit in particular felt so rushed and incomplete that it was almost like reading someone's quick notes on something they intended to flesh out further later on. Collins spent the first two books painstakingly, carefully, gently cultivating and growing this complicated relationship between Katniss and Peeta, only to throw it on its head and then sum it up in basically a summary paragraph at the end. It felt very unfulfilling as the "closure" on something she was so careful to develop in the past books. The whole last part of the book after Katniss returns to District 12 could have been a few extra chapters on its own and I'm not sure why the novel just picks up speed at that point and becomes more and more summary-like, almost like you were already reading the epliogue.<br /><br />There were some bright lights scattered in the book - Katniss' initial heartfelt speech as the Mockingjay, Finnick spilling his "secrets," the brief moments when Peeta's old personality breaks through his confusion, Johanna fleshing out as a character, Finnick and Annie's relationship and wedding, etc. Katniss, however, seems to become a shell of her old self, and even in the end you get the feeling she's just as depressed as ever.<br /><br />In all I was somewhat let down by the end to this series. The first two books were fantastic and I just felt like the conclusion could have been so much more epic and wrapped up the loose ends so much better. Instead we get a bleak, hopeless war where no one is trustworthy and characters you've come to love are so damaged and changed (or vengeful, or depressed) that you don't really know who to root for, or if there's anything left rooting for. Again, I do understand the message that war sucks, and there are no real winners, but I feel like there should have been something left to hope for by the end, and maybe just a few more glimpses of the heroine from the first two novels... I wouldn't have minded seeing more of the old brilliant, well-spoken Peeta as well; he was the character I probably admired most.<br /><br />Anyway, it's probably still worth the read (especially if you're dying to find out how the story ends like I was) but don't expect to be completely fulfilled by it.