Oh Mrs. Collins where to begin, where to begin! I want to know what happened to the characters that were in The Hunger Games!! I also want know what happened to the characters whose actions made sense!! As one of the hugest fans of the first 2 i found this one as an utter disapointment!! It felt when i read it as if you were pressured into writing this quickly and how the publishers wanted. i know as an avid book reader if you are reading this review you are already this far in the series and are going buy this book because you to know the riviting conclusion to the epic Hunger Games trilogy but fair warning the only thing special about it is how annoying the characters tend to be in this ending. it was as if the author swapped the tenacious and loveable characters with some sort of generic copies. Katniss became a whiny, depressed, moaning brat who got upset when she didnt get her way. instead of moping about it how about it get up and do something about it!<br /><br />Another problem this book had it was as if the author felt empty without 23 different tributes to murder and instead satysfied her bloodlust with meaningless unsensable deaths of loved characters that wouldnt have bothered me if their deaths had actually been senseable and improved the story. instead it felt like she needed somebody to die and pulled names out of hat at random! and then decided well, i need them to die somehow so lets come up with the most,illogical impossable way for them to have been in this place at this time or lose a battle they normally wouldnt have lost because somebody has to die!<br /><br />The humor which i normally enjoy wasnt there and the little that was, was very dry and not really humorous while I admit once or twice a chuckle escaped me i was otherwise unimpressed.<br /><br />Another thing about this book (my this is getting to be very long list) Characters she didnt feel the need to brutally murder she left with completly unresolved endings i wanted to know what happened to them not that they abandoned everyone they cared about because they just couldnt stand to be around that place! I dont want a fairy tale ending for everyone i just want a true ending for them, the characters i have been folowing for so long. if they died in a logical senseable manner i would have been happier than the unresolved ending she gave.<br /><br />overall very dispointing ending to an otherwise excellent trilogy I know im being picky but I have come to expect great things from you Mrs.Collins.