I can't believe this trilogy has me feeling so compelled to write my first ever Amazon review.  I'm not a review type of person.  However, I'd like to gently forewarn the next enthusiastic reader about The Hunger Games, Katniss and Suzanne Collins.  Because, I, for one was surely enthused.  Please know I really wanted to give the entire series a 5 star across the board.  I really did!!!  There was room for such great growth and potential.  Yet, I left the world of Panem feeling lukewarm, disturbed, and stunned.  Especially the ending to Book 1 and most definitely the last book, Book 3.<br /><br />Suzanne is definitely not a happily ever after sort of author.  Which is fine - to each its own.  Now I know for future read.  With all the violence and darkness, I remained hopeful for a happy ending.  A ying/yang balance to all the ick.  I kept trudging along believing that hope will arrive, that I wouldn't be disappointed.  The time of hope never does arrive and I was disappointed.  It was more like a constant lingering tease.  Until you realize, "what have I done?" and go "DOH!"  O-M-G the characters are flat, 1 dimensional.  There was such richness for the main and secondary characters to be developed.  I was wishing for them to develop and grow.  Now onto the romance, first love, etc.  I'm saddened by the romance because you can't even truly call it one.  I'm a dubious sentimentalist and hopeless romantic.  It was just so unbelievable and annoying.  It felt like an afterthought, almost like let's toss the readers a mince bit of bone.  If there's a love triangle make it real and good - pump it with drama.  Instead Gale was missing for most of the entire series.  Katniss... oh Katniss!  I didn't like her and she's the heroine.  Like the series and my imaginings of 5 stars, I strived extra hard to like her.  In the end I found I wanted to slap her silly for being blind and entirely selfish.  Perhaps on the verge of wringing her neck.  You know shake her into realizing that love did surround her and to stop taking flight.  Even after the heroine realizes she was selfish, she didn't change.<br /><br />Overall, I did enjoy my read of the series.  Therefore, can't will myself to give it less than 3 stars across the entire board.  I read all three books in 3.5 days.  I don't regret making my Kindle purchases or taking the time to read the trilogy.  I'm just sad that I wasn't able to find it amazing because I started so very hopeful/optimistic.  I'd even recommend others to give it a chance and see for themselves.  In this case I'm the minority (voice of the few who dare say otherwise), since so many people love the trilogy.  But in the end I wasn't impressed and it left a lingering bad after taste in my mind.<br /><br />The only upside to this are the characters of Prim and Peeta (especially Peeta).  He was the redeeming quality and salvation to this messy atrocity.  If I can ask Suzanne, I'd like to know her decision of Finnick and Prim.  Than cry out, "why?"  How is this for YA?