It's amusing to read some of the reviews and to see the debate focused on whether Mockingjay is great literature and on Katniss Everdeen's strange character regression:  i.e., is it consistent with Katniss' personality to have her be so manipulated here? The critics are missing the basic fact that the book isn't literature, it's propaganda for a particular form of paranoid pacifist isolationism, and Katniss' manipulation is the core of the author's political message to teens. The first two books established beyond peradventure that the Capitol and its president are truly evil - they starve their subject populations, turn human beings into animal-like monsters, regularly force children to kill one another as spectacle for pure sport. We expect Mockingjay to deal with the question of how this evil regime is to be replaced in an ethical way. The author's answer is that it can't, and that the "collateral consequences" of any rebel fight are so large as to call into question the morality of the entire enterprise. Moreover, says the author, the leader of any rebellion is going to be tainted by the quest for power and ultimately will be equally or more deserving of death than the regime she is fighting. Both sides will use scenes that evoke emotion in the mass media to manipulate you into adhering to their position and all such scenes will be equally false, regardless of what side is responsible. Sorting out truth from falsehood in this situation is almost impossible, according to the author. Your only recourse is to refuse to participate and to retreat into isolation with your family. Of course, as the 20th century showed us beyond any doubt, the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. The author, a writer for television, is giving her own industry too much credit and her audience too little. We are not all idiots, thank you very much. Teens generally see through these books to the buried fallacious arguments that the authors are trying to imprint on their brains; my teen read a hundred pages of this book and threw it down in disgust.