I was very excited to read this last installment of the Hunger Games series. I really enjoyed the first two books (although I found Katniss to be a bit annoying at times, almost like Bella was in Twilight, but that comparison might be unfair in some respects), so I read the third with a sense of enthusiasm I haven't felt since I finally held the 7th Harry Potter book in my hands. However excited I was when I began reading, it dwindled down to a nothing numbness by the time I finished with the book. I even slept on it before writing this review, in hopes that I would feel better about it the next day. I feel worse.<br /><br />First, I am disappointed in the character development. Though I might've been a little overwhelmed and annoyed by Katniss at brief moments in the other books (which I blame on the overbearing first person perspective and almost diary-type writing style that became too casual for me at some parts), I was very frustrated with her absence in this book. It seemed to me that when she wasn't shooting a propo for D13, she was either in a drug-induced stupor or sleeping it off in some abandoned closet(which makes for a pretty dull read). Peeta is also absent from 95% of the story line in this installment. It really bothered me when we come to realize that Peeta has been "hijacked" against Katniss, as I believed that his rescue might actually give her character more zest, when in fact it does the opposite. As a reader, I lost my trust in Peeta, and I was waiting for that moment when I felt that he could actually be the same again, but that moment never came for me. Finnick is the only character that I felt was well-rounded. I felt a strong connection to him and his relationship with Annie (which is never really fully explored), and was offended when his life came to such an abrupt and uncelebrated end. I thought he deserved more than to meet his fate in a sewer filled with muttations, and I did not appreciate that Katniss hardly gives his death a second thought.<br /><br />I also didn't understand the point of the fabricated mission to kill President Snow. We invested a lot of time following the group of star studded soldiers on their journey into the capitol. We whitnessed a lot of deaths...I think Katniss counts 8 deaths in 24 hours...and some fairly significant exchanges between Katniss and Peeta (real or not real?), only to have the mission suddenly cut short by an explosion. I understand the explosion's significance, as it kills Prim, the person that Katniss first swore to protect. What I don't understand is why Katniss had to be picked up and plopped back into D13. It was so anticlimactic and disappointing, not to mention frustrating because it seemed like a big waste of valuable pages.<br /><br />Overall, I am disappointed with this part of the story because I wanted Katniss, the rebels, and myself to experience some kind of vindication...something that would make it all seem worth it in the end. Instead, Katniss is delivered a final blow (the death of her sister) that essentially deadens her, and with her, the story. I'm not sure what I wanted out of her...I wanted her to want to make a difference. Instead, it felt like everything she did was forced upon her. Nothing was ever truly in her hands. I thought she would stay in 13 and help build a new, functional world. I thought that we had focused on Peeta's skills with speech and people because he would eventually become the President of the new world. I thought everything would be shiny and new and hopefull, but instead of tears of joy, I cried tears of defeat and emptiness when I finally closed this book. I felt nothing, just like Katniss.