So... let me first say that I enjoyed the first two books very much. Before I decided on the final book, I had to read the reviews.  I flipped through many, many of them but the majority that I got through kept saying it was going to be disappointing.  I figured I would read it first and then form my own opinion about it later.  Well, here's my opinion: I'm empty! This book soooo did not leave me feeling ANYTHING.<br /><br />You know, I suppose I would have been fine with the ending... Katniss and Peeta both in their states and everything else (there's can't always be a rainbow and unicorns kind of ending, can there?).  The problem I have with this book is that it was so rushed and very little detail (except about the actual fight itself).  Everything that happened I kept having to turn back the page because I thought I missed something (like Prim dying?..I literally turned back and said "Wait? What?") I just want to say that I wish Collins would have focused more on character development for the characters that she makes a point about introducing.  And can I say that I really started to NOT LIKE Katniss in this book?! Romantically, I felt so bad for Peeta and how Katniss treats him - she's so selfish - and I can't say anything about Gale because even though I was hoping in this third book that Katniss is out of the arena and reunited with Gale that we can see more of how Gale really is, I still feel like he was really flat. I have no emotions for him because unlike Peeta, I can't seem to really read into how he TRULY is.  What his personality would be like.  I felt like I knew Peeta's personality enough to maybe predict what he would do in certain situations but not Gale.. and this is what disappointed me.  Both characters, who were rather a big part of Katniss's life.. seemed to fall flat.<br /><br />There are a lot of elements in this book that I would have liked to change.. I like happy endings too but I can accept that fact that it's not always like that.  But if it was supposed to make me feel SOMETHING, then give me SOMETHING. If it's supposed to be tragic and sad, make me CRY!  If it was supposed to make me reflect, I am surely not reflecting! I've read other books with a not-so-flowery ending but it left me feeling something inside - like by the end of the story, I could connect with the characters and they would really stay with me.<br /><br />This book did not do that.  I felt nothing for the characters, especially not Katniss. Collins just took it all away - all the emotions I had begun developing for the characters.  It's gone. Everything and everyone is flat.  The story was too rushed.  All the answers were rushed.  All that time she spent on more than half the book describing battles could have been used to do something more.