The Hunger Games would be much more palatable if this story were original.  It is not.  I read Battle Royale a few years ago and greatly enjoyed the entire experience.  I'm a high school teacher, and my students have been raving about The Hunger Games.  While I was aware of the comparison to Battle Royale I thought I'd give the story a try, wanting to judge it on its own merits.  I came away sorely disappointed.<br /><br />The storyline is virtually identical to that of Battle Royale.  This is concerning for two reasons.  First, it is glaringly unoriginal.  Throughout the story, I kept hoping for the plots of the two books to diverge onto separate paths.  This did not happen in any sustained way.  The political environment, the setup in the arena, the writing about the Games, the love story, they have all been written before and given much more articulate and compelling treatment.  Second, it is written in an inferior manner to Royale.  I could forgive the "plot inspiration" were the author to exhibit exceptional literary skill.  Unfortunately, Ms. Collins disappoints.  In fairness, the one element that I appreciated from Games was the preparation process.  This diverged to a significant degree from Royale's plot, and made me quite hopeful for the arena.  I sped through those pages hoping for more originality, yet, found none.<br /><br />As other reviewers have mentioned, the arena scene, virtually two-thirds of the book, fails to offer the main character any moral dilemma.  This frustrated me to a great degree.  The author constructed a story arc with which she could really play with morality and emotion.  Instead she included a contrived, poorly written, and uninspired love story.  The main character feels, in this reviewer's opinion, almost a bystander to the main conflict.<br /><br />Now, I'm not a young adult, but as a teacher of young adults I find the acclaim of such a one dimensional work truly frightening.  While I'm excited to see young people reading anything (anything is better than no reading), I feel that their age group is missing out on something more.  For those young people discovering reading, the premise of the story is irresistible.  Sadly, the conclusion of the story leaves me wishing that I had reread Battle Royale.  This could have been a novel headed for the English cannon.  Instead, it will go the way of the Twilight series, fading into irrelevance, as its readers mature.