There's nothing less than one star or I would have given it that rating. I blame myself for breaking my own cardinal rule: don't buy a trilogy unless you read the first book first. I admit that the movie trailer had me believing that no one would drop big bucks on buying movie rights unless the books were excellent. Big mistake. The premise of the books: in the deep dark future the country of Panem is a brutal dictatorship with its 12 remaining "districts" living under slave rule to provide the Capitol with everything they need or want to live large. Katniss, a 16 year old girl who has lived in district 12 her whole life, who has seen brutal killings, has had to hunt in the wild to provide for her family, etc volunteers to take the place of her younger sister who has been selected to fight in the yearly Hunger Games, an event designed to keep the slave populace aware of what happens to people who revolt against the government. Katniss enters the game with a boy she'd known her entire life but didn't suspect his love for her. They enter the games and its Last Man Standing rules. Brutal death, hunger, dangers around every corner. What is Katniss' prime concern? Is it getting killed, leaving her sister and mother to die of starvation? Is it the dread of a knife or spear penetrating her, killing her? Nope, her prime concern is whether or not Peeta, the boy she's with, REALLY REALLY REALLY loves her. Prime dialogue:  Peeta loves me, or DOES he? I love him too, or DO I? And my hunting partner/boyfriend back home, he loves me too. Or DOES he, and I want him, or DO I? Jesus Mary and Joseph. My 15 year old granddaughter could have written a better book. This is a book about a chick written by a chick. The author is trying to describe life in a futuristic concentration camp but writes about the girl's maturity level as if it were 2012 in San Francisco. If this book had been written in a less sophmoric manner, Katniss wouldn't have even thought about anyone's feelings or any misunderstandings between her and her boyfriends, she would have been a hardened, mature girl at age 16 who had liven in conditions similar to girls and boys in modern age countries like Somalia and Yemen. She wouldn't have even considered little silly girl concerns such as IF some boy loved her, she would have been in the games to win and live, period. I'm forced to finish the trilogy just because I  paid for them, but I'm finding myself skipping pages by the dozens, sick and tired of the immature and outlandishly inappropriate dialogue that goes on and on and on about her little "feelings". Don't buy this joke of a trilogy, just go see the movie and hopefully it won't be as bad as the books.