Book 3 was a huge disappointment and I believe some fans are giving Collins far too much credit for intentionality in its effect...unless she was writing from a hospital bed after a severe concussion which caused her to permanently forget who her characters were. Add a morphine (morphling?) drip and I'd say she pulled off some great writing, given her disabled condition. Absent that however, it just feels like she abandoned us and let an intern in her creative writing class finish the story...after he/she was off their anti-depressant meds for a couple weeks.<br /><br />*Spoiler Alert*<br />If she was going for a Lord of the Rings, "Frodo can't go back to the Shire" moment, at least take a second to make her loss of innocence meaningful. In the first two books, Katniss is the girl on fire, but in this third book it is the reader. As each character we actually care about in the book is consumed, we agonizingly feel the flames burn to first, then second degree...but finally it reaches the third degree and we no longer feel at all. The one person Katniss is sure she loves from the beginning of the series is Prim, so with her nonchalant death the last nerve is singed. Unnecessarily, the story ends without life - just a bland existence. Was it too much to ask for the girl on fire to be a Phoenix and rise from the ashes - just as Finnick did who suffered 100x more abuse and still retained the capacity for hope and love? (BTW, Finnick's character development/redemption was the reason I gave the book 2 stars instead of 1, but snuffing him out like an afterthought borders on self-destructive behavior for a writer of Collins' caliber.)<br /><br />At the end of the day, the real reason we are so disappointed is that we know she is capable of so much more and this book almost read like Collins was lashing out at her own "Capital" by destroying what she had so artfully built in the first two books. In the end though, the Capital is intact, and only the innocent reader suffers...and by the end there is nothing but ashes.