Warning: Spoilers ahead, though I tried to be as unspecific as possible regarding names and situations.<br /><br />I felt "Mockingjay" was a shadow of its predecessors in so many ways. It was cold and remote, not to mention filled with so much war talk that I, at times, found myself zoning out and skipping paragraphs of exposition, particularly in the heat of Team 451's infiltration of the Capitol. This should have been a thrilling and fast-paced section of the book, yet I found it to be some of the author's most dull and meandering writing. The first two books, despite being a complete blood bath, had tiny shreds of warmth and love and hope to propel the reader through their many horrors. We, as readers of Katniss's innermost thoughts, buy into the idea that she (and Peeta, by extension) has the drive and fortitude to do anything, overcome any obstacle. "Mockingjay," while equally as violent, lacks all of these other elements -- we become so distanced from the characters that the story loses its momentum. We see Katniss become a pliable and pathetic character, incapable of even supporting herself let alone leading a revolution. Peeta's absence throughout most of the book lies heavy on our hearts, but when he does finally return, changed and broken, we are repulsed. Why are we repulsed, when we could be strong and believe in his inherent goodness? Because Katniss is repulsed. Even when she finally does reach out to him in Tigress's shop, it's too little too late and we've lost all hope that they will ever become special to one another in the way they once were. By the end of the story we wonder what has become of the characters we grew so attached to in the first two books -- Katniss, Peeta, Gale, even Haymitch. Not one of them propels the story significantly forward in "Mockingjay," this being particularly noticeable during the final rebel assault on the Capitol. Why exactly did we follow Team 451 for so many pages? And what exactly did they accomplish? We read through 300-some pages of the book without Katniss doing much of anything productive, and when she does finally grab the bull by its horns at Snow's execution, it's chalked up to madness and we are whisked far away from the action to a morphling-induced finale involving Katniss's complete transformation into, of all people, her mother -- broken, empty, drifting. We are given a happy ending or at least what should pass as a happy ending, except that we've seen every one of our favourite characters either destroyed, conveniently relocated without much of an explanation, or whittled into almost nothingness. We are left with no confidence that the country has found long-lasting peace. We are dissatisfied.<br /><br />I am very relieved to know that there are others who disliked this book, too. I find myself wondering if I will bother to see "Mockingjay" in the theatre. Looking back on the book, there isn't a single moment that I care to revisit. Even Finnick's wedding, which I found to be very touching, would be horribly depressing in hindsight.<br /><br />Oh Suzanne Collins, what have you done and why on earth did your editors let you do it?