I'm not sure how I feel about The Hunger Games. At the end of the day, isn't it about whether or not you liked it and would recommend it to someone else? Yes? Then, okay, consider me as giving it a thumbs up. The book is entertaining--you want to know what kind of curveballs Katniss and Peeta are thrown next during the actual Games.<br /><br />On the other hand, as I think about the story as a whole (or perhaps as a "hole")...it's shallow.<br /><br />Let's start with the love story. I could see all along and was expecting Peeta's feelings for Katniss to spark some sort of emotional turmoil within the heroine...she started to love him only because it meant survival. I have no issues with that. My biggest problem with the love story was this hint of a love triangle developing with Gale. Gale was present for all of one or two chapters. I don't think his character was developed well enough to make Katniss' conflicting emotions at the book's end believable. Someone in her shoes would have either been in love with Peeta or not in love (or not think that they might be in love) with anyone else. At the beginning, we're not given any reason to believe that Katniss might have feelings for Gale, and the fact that she starts considering that possibility two-thirds of the way through the book, with Peeta (who she thinks is generous and handsome) obviously falling hard for her, feels unnatural. In the end, the way the love story was left as a sort of cliffhanger was expected but it still felt shallow beyond that.<br /><br />Secondly, I'm not sure I'd classify this book as young adult...and the fact that they say 13 year olds can read it is laughable. I'm an adult male with fairly moderate views, especially when it comes to violence and sex...but when I think of how this book will be played out as a movie, I feel that there's no way it couldn't be rated R, if the movie stays true to the book. Children are impaled by arrows and spears, creatures bite off huge chunks of other kids' legs, and Katniss is completely naked (in front of an adult man) on more than one occasion. I know she's not in the buff in any sexual situations but it still seems off to me. I don't know.<br /><br />That said, as a communication professor, I enjoyed the book's study of reality television and look forward to seeing the movie. Going forward, however, the issues present in this first book, mostly as it relates to Katniss' character and her underdeveloped internal conflict, makes me question whether or not I want to read "Catching Fire." That is my current internal conflict.