One of the most unhappy, disappointing, and illogical conclusions to any series I've read.  I couldn't have been more thrilled and engrossed with the first two novels (giving the first two books 5 stars), and was even more eager to complete the series.  However, the conclusion to four main storylines left me feeling like I wasted my time.  First and foremost this was a story about a hunter, Katniss, who sacrifices everything to save her younger sister, Prim.  It becomes a love triangle between her and the two men/boys who love her.  She needs to decide between the best friend, Gale, who helped her save her family, and the Hunger Games partner, Peeta, who helped save her.  Along the way this solitary huntress wins over friends, acquaintances, and enemies alike.  Who will survive?  Finally, the story blows up to much more, and becomes about liberty and revolution, and will the long suffering districts rise up to overcome the evil Capitol.<br /><br />I could not have been more dissatisfied with how each of these elements played themselves out in the final novel.<br /><br />SPOILER ALERT:  The first part was one of the most frustrating.  Primrose Everdeen is the person who sets the entire series of events in motion.  By killing off this character I felt like the rest of the plotlines were like a house of cards.  I probably wouldn't have felt as strongly this way, if not for the way it was handled in the book.  Rather than making it a shocking moment of sorrow, it felt completely contrived and unrealistic.  The author tries to explain Prim's presence deep in Capitol territory, but it still makes no sense.  There is no rational explanation for the author to place this character in this place and this time, and ruins any emotional connection.<br /><br />The love triangle killed me as well.  I was pulling for Gale, but would have been understanding of either choice.  I don't think enough was done to differentiate between these two characters.  Other than one being a hunter/miner and the other being a social baker, I always got the feeling that either one of them would have done the same thing in the other's position.  Katniss gives too much credit to circumstance.  However, to have Katniss harbor any ill-will towards Gale for Prim's death is over the top absurd.  She is supposed to be a survivor, hunter, Victor, rebel leader and soldier, and she doesn't understand the disconnect between a weapon, and the person who uses that weapon on a specific target.  Additionally, I felt no conclusion to this relationship.  The conclusion to the entire love triangle seemed hurried and incomplete.<br /><br />Who lives and who dies?  The entire second-half of the novel, Katniss second-guesses herself regarding dragging other people into her personal mission.  Well she should have been, because everyone sacrifices themselves to see her complete the mission, which doesn't happen.  If she had stayed home in District 13, the war would have reached the same conclusion with half the lives wasted.  While this might be 'realistic', it made for a terrible story.  Very frustrated....