I really loved the first two books and jumped on here to buy the third book in The Hunger Games Trilogy.  I noticed the overall reviews were a lot lower than the other books had received and wondered why.  I glanced at a couple of the reviews but saw they all had spoilers so I stopped trying to read them and just bought the book.  How bad could it be?  Even if it was mediocre, I require that closure...don't you?  So - needless to say, I was very excited to read it.  Ugh.  I won't go into the details - I came back and read a lot of reviews here after the fact - people cover it well enough so I won't rehash.  I just want to write and tell potential purchasers to save your money.  Trust me.  I don't care how much you loved the first two...quit while you are ahead...make up an ending in your own mind.  You would thank me later...but hopefully that won't be happening because you are going to take my advice and not read this third book so you won't know what I saved you from.  No thanks necessary!<br /><br />Seriously - I know most of you will ignore this and then come back later and say you wish you had listened to me.  I'm not one for "I told you so's" - I just wish I had caught a review like this and somehow it had stopped me from reading this third book.  I am an avid reader and I never write bad reviews but I felt absolutely compelled to save at least one person.  I feel bad doing this because the author gave me such joy in the first and second books...but holy moly...she really missed the bus on this one - huge missed opportunity.  As for the reviewers that say it was realistic and they are veterans or know veterans...and that she was making a point...all I can say is that I am also a veteran and she could have made the point and still written a wonderful book to wrap up the trilogy in a satisfying manner...she has proven she has the skill in previous efforts.  I don't need a fairytale ending.  This one just took so many wrong turns - it was garbage.  Maybe she'll come back and rewrite it one day and fix the trilogy - that would be the right thing to do.  Scrap this book and start all over.  If I was a writer and I saw my readers felt this way...and was able to understand that the unsatisfied readers didn't miss the point...then I would go back and do it again - I would feel like I owed it to them.  Anyway - hopefully you see this in time!