My 13 year old daughter tried to get it at the library but there was a waiting list and of course she couldn't wait! So I spent $5 for the kindle version. She seemed thrilled by it and I've heard older people seemed enthralled by this novel and want to continue through the other 2 episodes which make up a trilogy.<br />I was intrigued by the writing style, the fluidity of the story line which opens with the heroine Katnis getting out of bed in the morning and wishing she could kill her sister's beloved cat. Right there you get a jolt. This 16 year old girl has a vicious streak. She does love her sister however. She has definite strong character traits.<br />Katnis has a daily mission - to feed her sister and mother by hunting with a male friend in the illegal territory of woods. She is a true shot with her bow and arrow. She's joined with a boy just slightly older than herself whom, she infers is just a friend. No love interest. They are both out to survive and keep their families from starving.<br />The main plot is the ghastly program run by the Capital, an iron fisted government that demands two young people, one male, one female, between 12-18 from each of the 12 "districts" to come together into an "Arena" of weird changeability, woods, mountain, lake, dangerous unreal wildlife. The object is to survive not only this environment, but to kill everyone else until one survives - the glorified Victor.<br />Katnis's 12 year old sister, Prim, has her name drawn. Katnis immediately volunteers herself as substitute. This is a very emotional, telling moment - this heroine has strong feelings, both of love and ferocious determination.<br />Why do I think this story is for female juveniles? - First of course there's teenage Katnis, who is heroine all the way through. Then, during the glorified preparations with much ceremony and fanfare before the "Games" begin, there is plenty of costume and makeup description most girls enjoy. I don't think a boy would be so enthralled by this. She is attended by two skilled body beauticians and one very creative costume designer. Her male counterpart also gets a makeover, but that's a minor supplement. A boy might like the episode about weapons training.<br />I'm not going to go into detail about the Game itself. It's the super-adventure part. Really really out of this world in scary detail and weird happenings, and if you like this, then the book is for you!<br />Then, finally, there's a Love bit - can't have a juvenile girl's story without Romance! Her male companion, Peter, claims to be in love with her right in the Game's outset, much to the joy of the Capital. They defend each other through it all. A big thing is made of this also by the blood thirsty Capital as entertainment. All is televised to the entire country. The people have to watch. Whether they approve, is not allowed. I'm sure they watch with horror and apprehension. After all - their children are being forced to fight to the death, with only one survivor.