This book begins with a compelling premise, but fails the reader by leaving it undeveloped.  Even allowing for the fact that it is considered young adult fiction, the main characters are vapid and superficial.  The author expects us to believe that Katniss, plucked from an impoverished, oppressed existence suddenly turns into a giddy teenager when presented with the baubles of her oppressors, just before they send her to her likely death.  Readers are further expected that Katniss and Peeta--each in their mid-teens, leading world-weary lives back home--don't have a clue about sex or romance, nor have experienced the feelings that accompany either.  These teenagers should be behaving more like old souls (or adults, at least) but their banter belies the fact that their emotional ages are somewhere between very sheltered ten to tweleve-year-olds. I love dystopian novels and I'm not squeamish about fictional depictions of brutality, but Collins ultimately squanders her opportunity to say anything meaningful about the orgy of violence she has created.  Only a few times, and in passing does Katniss question the authority overlords who created the Hunger Games.  Her narrative primarily focuses on overwrought, repeatative descriptions every event in the book as it occurs.  She spends the majority of the novel attempting to appease them.  The single most compelling scene in the novel is when Katniss and Peeta have the opportunity to commit suicide, and while their decision makes a statement about loyalty, it ultimately sends the message that you should give up instead of fight, and that you should bow to your oppressors if you feel there is any chance they will spare your life.  "Resistance is futile" seems to be Collins' message.  Other dystopian novels like Brave New World or Oryx and Crake, explore the machinations of a dysfunctional society, or like Lord of the Flies, demonstrate what can occur in the absence of society to place borders around the extremes of the unchecked drives of human nature.  Others, like 1984 explore the psychology of its protagonists.  Teenage readers should leave this novel to the smaller kiddos it was probably intended for, and skip ahead to more substantive (and enjoyable) books.