SPOLERS BELOW so don't read review if you have not read the last book!!!<br /><br />Wow!  Where to begin?  There so much wrong with Mockingjay on so many levels.  I'll never be able to cover all that disappoints me with this last book but here goes my "short" version rant.....<br /><br />While I loved the 1st 2 books and perhaps even about 1/4 of Mockingjay is tolerable until the moment they bring Peeta back into the picture and he tries to strangle Katniss.  Here the author loses me as the our main characters and their story start to completely unravel into a big chaotic unrecognizable MESS to NEVER come back full circle to wrap anything up in any satisfactory manner!  While the subject matter in this trilogy is barbaric and horrible the storyline and characters are intrigueing and engaging in the first 2 books and you really think the story is going somewhere with good overcoming evil at hand with being all wrapped around a sweet endearing love story.  Until the 3rd book goes KERPLUNK into oblivion! Where the first 2 books can be read with caution by younger readers (perhaps 12 & up) this last book becomes unfairly inappropriate for them about the time Finnick starts in with his revelations about Snow.  The material from here on out becomes way too adult oriented for this younger audience at this point.<br /><br />Our beloved admirable Peeta that I am sure most readers come to love and adore becomes a completely different character until he has a VERY slight return at the end but by then any emotion you could have for him or any of them for that matter has wained because he never truelly comes back.  The author NEVER gives you "THE MOMENT" between Katniss & Peeta that is so deserving of at least Peeta's character.  Katniss remains cold and selfish toward Peeta no matter all that he has done and sacrificed for her.  So while Katniss deep down is actually a decent person with a good heart the author never allows the character to completely SHOW PEETA what he has always meant to her--only the audience via the 1st person gets a glimpse of this but not the character of Peeta in any real sense.  There are so many missed moments in this last book I could go on and on.  The author totally misses the mark.<br /><br />The author leaves the reader in pretty much the same state the characters are left--empty former shells of themselves--numbed with no happy ending in any way shape or form.  As soon as I realized the parachutes that came down and killed the children and Prim was actually real and not some drug induced episode I was very angry.  I thought, REALLY?  After all this the author leaves us with Prim dying in the end when the whole premise started with Katniss giving her life for her sister.  Katniss is the MOCKINGJAY, the GIRL on FIRE but she flickers out to nothingness pretty much like everyone else.  She never actually win the day so to speak!  She is in a constant morhpine induced crazy fog.  This is a FICTON book after all so give the readers what they want and wrap it up with VICTORY, true love winning out and redeemable characters not drug induced crazy chaotic scenes that move so fast you feel you are high as a kite as well with no "we won the day" feeling taking out the evil Capitol.  I mean Katniss doesn't even actually get the true revenge on Snow.  He actual gets more of what he wants in the end.  The actual fall of the Capital is skipped.  If I wanted what could perhaps be anything  of a reality version ending with sad endings and never really getting out of the despair- how about I just watch the news or read a non-fiction book?  I won't even waste my time discussing any of the other characters as it seems the Author didn't either as she appears to lose interest too and just wanted to hurry up and finish.<br /><br />HUGE MISSED OPPORTUNITY here......Hopefully Producers of the movies will see this & "fix" it to give the audience something to cheer for otherwise---why go see Mockinjay in the theatre with it evolving into this depressing unsatisfying mess!