I put some serious thought into that rating.  The first book was, quite simply, amazing.  The plotting was perfect as was the character development.  As the series progresses, the plot seems to get away from the author a little and, maybe due to the limited first person viewpoint, we see a bit less of what's really going on.  Much deduction is required, at times frustratingly so due to Katniss's rather pointed feelings one way or another.<br /><br />What Mockingjay lacks is the shock and awe factor of the first two.  The length of the book becomes a little daunting after a while since all we're seeing is war, war, war.  However, part of the point of the series seems to be that war kills and people are corrupt and even the best and the brightest of us have to make sacrifices or be sacrificed.  That point is put home brilliantly by the end when Collins makes some tough choices getting rid of or alienating certain key and very loved characters.  Katniss's decisions are well-thought through, but not always correct and we start to see that she is as much at fault as anyone else including Presidents Coin and Snow.<br /><br />The love triangle of Gale-Katniss-Peeta is awkward and awful at times, occasionally alarmingly so.  And Katniss almost seems to purposely cut herself off from those important to her only to want them back at times of great need.  This is not so much suprising given the nature of the book and its message about war, but we do see a young girl faced with hard decisions in every facet of life.  Her weird love triangle is balanced nicely by her relationship with Finnick and the new addition Boggs who is about the most even headed character present in the series and is instantly likeable not just from Katniss's perspective but because of his constant calming and logical presence.<br /><br />So, while this third and final entry of The Hunger Games is not nearly up to par in some ways with the first book, it is still a solid finisher.  When writing, making the tough choices seem to have a bigger payoff in the end even if it separates the author from some of the core readers.  I wanted one or two things to happen differently, but I can appreciate that the propaganda machine that is The Hunger Games is an important part of the final product.  Because of that, I cannot fault Suzanne Collins for making some of the decisions she makes, because, in the end, they do seem to be the right from Katniss's perspective, and I would hate to see the series end in the popular way and not with the author's original vision for this groundbreaking trilogy.  Hence, a solid three.