"Mockingjay' is the final book in the Hunger Games trilogy.  If you haven't read the first two books, BEWARE:  SPOILER ALERT!  Katniss Everdeen, survivor of TWO Hunger Games, is back and deeply involved with the rebel alliance (very 'Star Wars', but it works) in District 13.  She's broken, mentally unstable, and depressive.  The Capitol and President Snow are VERY UPSET about her arrow-shot at the end of Book 2.  In fact, they're so angry, they've bombed the bejeebers out of Katniss' home district, District 12.  Most of the residents are dead and the few survivors are holed up in District 13 and being eyed closely as breeding stock.  This is the start of the story arc, and I'll tell you-- it goes downhill from here.  Katniss is having a breakdown and page after page of the book focuses on her depressive moods and thoughts.  It doesn't really move the storyline forward very much, just makes the reader think: "Yeesh! Enough already! I get it!".  Peeta is being held and tortured in The Capitol, and this adds a dimension of guilt to Katniss' already morbid mental state.  Eventually, he's rescued, but he's pretty much insane because of the combination drugs and torture suffered in The Capitol.  He tries to kill Katniss, and the sight of her puts him into a killing rage.  *sigh*  More angst for Katniss.  She decides to take up the mantle of 'Mockingjay' and be the figurehead for the Rebels.  Of course, she's being used by the president of District 13, but she doesn't seem to care very much at all.  2/3 of the book is Katniss being mopy, making propaganda films for District 13 to broadcast, and getting injured in gruesome ways with Gale at her side.  When at last the Rebels make their move on the Capitol, Katniss (with Gale by her side) is supposed to be on the fringe, but she ends up in the thick of the fight, being shot, stabbed, burned and everything else you can think of.  The book just ENDS, in an abrupt way that jumps around in time and location.  There's an Afterward that seemed more like an afterthought.  Very unsatisfactory.  I'm not sure what I was looking for.  Maybe more peace for Katniss and the surviving humans?  Overall, a brutal, lengthy book that could have benefitted by some tough-love editing.  Of course, if you've read the first two, you have to read the last one, so Collins has everyone hooked.  Clever girl. One of my main issues with this series for Teens is that it has overtones of 'Lord of the Flies' as well as the Japanese book 'Battle Royale' by Takami.  Collins goes overboard in the detailed cruelty that Katniss faces and witnesses.  Would this level of torturing be approprate for an adult book?  Yes.  I think it is too detailed for Tweens for sure.  I would have to tell Teens that they need strong stomachs for book 3.  The laundry list of graphic horrors is pretty long, and I wouldn't suggest this for Tweens at all.  I enjoyed the first book the most, the 2nd book a little less, and the final one not at all.  I just felt that I had to finish it to get closure, but I was mentally beaten up when I turned the last page.