I must admit, once starting this trilogy, I was instantly sucked in.  A couple chapters in, and there was no way I wouldn't finish the series.<br /><br />It started out strong.  Without giving too much away, I started out really admiring the main character, Katniss.  She's a strong girl and lives to care for her sister and family.  I rooted for her and wanted her to win at the Games.<br /><br />A new character was introduced--Peeta.  Peeta is the flattest major character I've encountered in a book in a long time.  There's absolutely no substance to him, and so I couldn't figure out why he was being featured so prominently in the books.  Then, a ridiculous, forced love story is concocted.  She has to pretend to love him... why?  She has to pretend to always be kissing him... why?  And I still don't really grasp why she actually had to pretend to be engaged to him, either.  It was just bizarre.  I couldn't swallow those ideas down.<br /><br />The further on the series went, the less I liked the main character.  Her family all but disappears from the books.  By the third book, even her best friend is basically hidden in the background.  The books begin to focus more on her feelings, thoughts, inner dialogue--even her dreams.  There are pages and pages of descriptions of her dreams and nightmares.  It's just dribble.  I found myself skimming through these parts to get back to the plot of the books.  Once something was happening, I got caught up in the books again, but I realized that I could no longer stand the main character.  She became completely unsympathetic.  She stopped thinking about and visiting her family and best friend.  She just moped around, thinking no one liked her and how she ruins everyone's lives.  She'd lead her two potential lovers on--first she'd tell them there's no way she could be with either of them, and then she'd be sleeping in one of their arms or making out with one in the woods.  She kept putting herself above everyone else.  I just couldn't stand her, and it's tough to really enjoy a book when you hate the protagonist!<br /><br />The books were OK.  They were definitely good in the sense that they suck you in right away.  On the other hand, they get worse and worse the further in them you get.  They're a lot like Twilight in that regard--and in regards to the love triangle.  Yes, this series is very much like Twilight.  Pick it up, enjoy them, but don't be surprised when things deteriorate as you get deeper into the series.