Let me say I loved this series as a whole and this book is obviously a must read. It's a very good book with touches of brilliance, but all in all I felt that it was rushed and just not as good as it could or really should have been.<br />SPOILER ALERT<br />My main beef with this book is the fact that far too much time is devoted to Katniss being injured, unconscious, delirious, distraught and/or drugged up. It takes up a significant portion of this book that would have been better spent developing the story along with the characters and the relationships between them. And this is significant because the overall story and characterizations were underdeveloped, and felt very rushed at the end. I understand that it was important for Collins to portray the distress and hopelessness that Katniss felt, especially at the end, but I think she over did it, and the overall story suffered. Also, why was Katniss unconscious for every major event? We are supposed to experience the story through her point of view, not hear about it from her point of view. This also hurt the story. And the final thing, of course, is the way the love triangle played out. Although I thought Gale made more sense, I can understand why she would end up with Peeta, if the right reasons were given. Killing off Prim with a bomb that Gale designed and having Katniss blame him for it was just a cheap and easy way to resolve it(Prim didn't even have to die. Just the fact that Coin killed those children and wanted to stage another Hunger Games would have been enough for Katniss to kill her). But even then, Katniss was longing for Gale back home in 12, hoping he would appear silently in the woods as he always does. But why did she chose Peeta? Simply because he was there, and Gale wasn't. The only thing that made sense in this regard is the one line about Gale being to similar to Katniss, and Katniss needing Peeta to basically balance her out. This should have been elaborated, and it should have been her decision. Instead, she just didn't really care, took what was given. She was a shell of her former self, dead inside. I understand the point that Collins is trying to make about war, but she doesn't even think of resilience or the hope that Katniss always portrayed. Just plain misery, no balance, just misery. She ruined the character of Katniss, and really Gale and Peeta too, just because she had to force her anti-war message down our throats. She butchered the ending of this series, and it's a shame, because the overall message could have been about a whole lot more than misery.