Fascinated by the hype the film's opening generated, and the fact that my 13 year old (boy) stated 'the books are the best and I cant wait to see the film' I decided to find out myself what all the fuss is about.<br />Three books later, and after several intense conversations with those (adults) who have seen the film (I have not), I find myself faced with the dilemma - Is this review of a childrens' series? Is it a review of a political and social veiled commentary? Is it a review of an adults series? I am unsure. The story centers around a 'country/world' (it is never clear), where a ruthless regime (aspects of which bear a striking resemblance to North Korea, Burma and recent events in Syria), maintain control through fear, manipulation, cruelty and hunger. However adults in this story play either a villianous or secondary role, children are the regimes main targets, source of opposition, heros (perhaps) and victims.<br /><br />As an adult and a parent I found this both distressing and confusing. Joseph Kony and other african warlords have obviously inspired the author.  But to the story! The evil regime having faced an uprising in the past has determined that every year each district must select two children to represent them in The Hunger Games. The world of the Hunger Games is divided into the 'Capitol' (evil, controlling, home of the president, materialistic and most definately not hungry) and the districts each with a singular purpose (farming, mining, manufacturing) that have varying population levels and are portrayed as basically concentration camps where the population is starved, beaten and controlled by the ruthless armies (peacekeepers) of the 'Capitol'. The games themselves are gladitorial. Each child goes into a man made world with the sole aim of killing every other child, and thus achieving both victory, survival and food. Of course none of this can happen until each child is groomed and paraded around to the citizens of the capitol, who obviously have no issue with media manipulation, child abuse and child murder. Oliver Stone in Natural Born Killers parodied a similiar media obsession.<br /><br />Our protagonist 'Katniss' is a 17 year old female from District 12, portrayed as one of the hungriest camps, in fact Katniss' greatest skill is creeping out of the confines of her camp to hunt successfully (with a bow and arrow) for food, many in her camp/district are in her debt for keeping them alive. Obviously Katniss is selected for the games. I wont give away the ending in the first book or in fact at the end of the third but it is as unexpected as expected. Themes of hunger are well represented and food and its consumption fill great numbers of pages, as do the author's annoying habit of spending many pages flashing back on Katniss' memories, the only purpose for this appears to be the desire to reiterate (over and over again) the rationale for her behaviour. Because despite the situation she finds herself in, the supporting characters and her past she is hard to like or understand.<br /><br />The Hunger Games if more subtle and better written could have been a truly great trilogy for adults. If fewer complex themes, more behavioural analysis, well rounded characters and a purposeful blackness and futility had been applied it could have been a series worth series academic and educational attention. It is neither, adults who have seen the film are appalled at the violence and premise (these adults are not wowsers). My own reaction? Shock. Shock that these books resonate with our children and shock that there has been no real discussion regarding the themes and events portrayed in them.