***SPOILERS AHEAD***<br />I'm one of those that was dissatisfied with the ending, and humor me by letting me explain why I feel that way.  Many people might say that the book presents things more realistically.  Honestly, I can understand a dark, realistic ending.  It's about as pitch black as an ending can get.  After all, the characters live in a world where children kill each other for entertainment.  Suzanne Collins was smart enough to know EXACTLY how we all expected the book to end: Katniss makes it to the President's Mansion, takes out Snow, and lives a long happy life with Peeta.  And Collins wanted to subvert expectations by writing the exact opposite of that fairy tale ending.  It's different, and for that I can respect a writer who wanted to try something other than what most people expect from this type of novel.  However, I don't think attempting to take things in a unlikely direction necessarily works in this case.  I don't mind that the ending is black and different, I mind that we leave Katniss without a single glimmer of hope.  The social commentary of this series conveys that these things should be avoided in society from the very get-go.  And yet we live them everyday.  Soldiers are killed in horrifying ways during wartime.  We scramble to maintain stability in a world where humanity is constantly attempting to destroy itself.  But we have to move on.  And that's exactly what Katniss personifies: an embodiment of hope given to the masses through horrifying self-sacrifice (any soldier returning from war with PTSD would no doubt have been very touched by this book).  I don't doubt that Katniss would've been deeply scarred by the events that took place during the course of the books.  Anyone would break after seeing such things.  But after all she's been through, the Katniss that I spent three books getting to know would find a way to stand up and keep fighting.  I'm not saying that I would expect her to miraculously get over Prim or forget the things she saw, but Katniss would've found a way to move on eventually.  This was a series of books about hope.  That even though the world can be a terrible place, we will move on and keep moving forward.  And I didn't get that feeling when I finished the book.  I felt that somehow all of it had been for nothing.  Everything that happened in the last thirty pages was pleasantly (or should I say horrifyingly?) surprising.  And I like it when a writer can surprise me in such a way.  But Katniss not at least being somewhat happy that she ended up with Peeta and two wonderful children boggles my mind.  She seems to hate it, almost.  Wouldn't her mother have eventually come back into the picture at some point?  Or maybe she established a friendship again with Gale?  The slightest detail about either of these things would've spoken wonders to me.  That maybe something good could come out of all this.  Unfortunately, I closed the book feeling nothing but dread.  Is that the point?  That life is going to be painful and cruel no matter how hard we try?  Even that isn't completely realistic.  The book seems to say, "Nothing good will ever come out of your suffering."  Well, I happen to believe the exact opposite.  Suffering can bring clarity and strength that you've never known before, and that's why I identified so much with Katniss.  She was the embodiment of finding strength and leadership amongst horrifying circumstances.  And yet the ending doesn't seem to convey that at all.  Overall, I've got to say I loved the book.  But the ending could've been done in a better way - a way that gave us some type of hope.  Isn't that why we were rooting for Katniss in the first place?