I share the same opinion as many of the reviews I've read so I'll try not to repeat all the same points.  I really loved HG, and liked CF, and truly believed that the author would complete the series in like fashion.<br />The reason I liked HG so much was that even though the main premise was so violent and depressing, we saw it through Katniss' eyes.  I thought the violence portrayed in that book was only what was necessary, and that we saw Katniss' compassion, strength, love for others (especially with Prim, Gale, Rue and Peeta), and her willingness to sacrifice for those she loved... and with Rue and Peeta we saw her ability for this even in the most horrifying situation.  And the only time Katniss killed in the first book was in self-defense, or defending someone else (Rue), or as an act of mercy (at the end when I think Cato was being tortured by the mutts).<br />None of that feeling was in this last book.  The violence was frequent, descriptive and without meaning much of the time.  And I agree with the others that state that the main point seems to be that war is horrible... and is it to say it's never ever justified?  I'm left wondering if the author's intention is for us to come away thinking that the people of the districts should have left awful enough alone and just stayed under the control of Snow and kept sending their kids to the HG every year?  What kind of message is that?  And this is a young adult book (my son read it and I did), so what message are the kids supposed to take from this?  Should they think people should never fight for their freedom or what's right?  That evil wins over goodness, hope, love, and sacrifice for others?  In the original books, I thought there was a greater message that the author intended about the capacity for goodness in people, and the need for compassion and love and hope... and none of that is in this so it just leaves you feeling depressed.  I can contrast this to what I know is true as an adult but wonder how confused that can leave some kids feeling.  I also thought that there would be an understanding of the reason the rebels needed to fight for their freedom and that the sacrifices would have meaning but there was none of that either.<br />At least one of the other reviews mentioned that they wish we could call a mulligan and have a new Mockingjay book written -- I ditto that!  There was so much potential for a deep, thought-provoking, enlightening ending to this series and it just didn't happen.