well i have read a lot of bad reviews, and i'm glad i didn't read the ones with spoiler alerts first...so i'll just say this...I loved hunger games.  I was boohoo-ing at the last 5 pages of Catching Fire, sitting on the couch crying to my dogs, "This is the best book ever!", and after Mockingjay, it does have a...oh how can i put it... satisfying... ending.  I'm sure people will disagree about that but I will agree with the other reviewers about some things, in certain areas you go back and re-read sections over again, I totally lost characters and their correlating names (who? huh?), and at one point I even looked up from my book into space and said out loud, "WHAT?" It is more stressful and you keep thinking, if I was Katniss I would have gone insane, or sank into a deep depression never to come out, or ran away because of all the stresses of war...ON A TEENAGE GIRL.  But its not about me, its about a fictitious character named Katniss, this is her story of what happened to her.  And you have to remember from the beginning of hunger games, she took on the role as the parent, the adult, the bread winner, and hunter of the family.  She has acted as an adult since she was 11.<br /><br />I'm not sure why this book had to be so stressful, I probably feel this way because I got so sucked into the love bubble from hunger games, that I forgot what it was all about from the beginning, a sadistic dictator ruling a poor and decrepit nation of innocent people...bonk! bonk! these are their stories.  And so the love bubble is definitely fragile, but it is indeed a bubble because you forget all the horrible things going until the end of hunger games, back to reality, bubble popped.  Just realize the love bubble doesn't recreate itself, no first kiss again, no more innocent children, they are acting adults.  And this book is so stressful because it is a tale of war and the people affected by the war.  The first two books are just leading up to it.<br /><br />I am just satisfied with the end, but the book as a whole was not my favorite of the three.....<br /><br />I have to add, which is why I even read the second and third is because the first was so good i wanted to know what happened next...and it was not as good, but again i'm ok with it. I gave 3 out of 5 stars because I wouldn't discourage people from just not finishing the series.