You can be anti-war.  That's fine.  War is a difficult thing to understand.  It's not pretty.  It's terrible.  However, you can't deny that it's sometimes justified...for instance, if some jerk is putting your underage kids into a lottery to fight to the death, perhaps?  Collins is very qualified to write about the subject of war, right?  After all, she IS a military brat.  Well, I'm a military wife so I imagine it qualifies me to write this review I suppose...I only say this because Collins stresses quite a few times in interviews that she's a military brat and that her dad taught her all about war and peace so she's qualified to make some sort of statement on it.  I've been married to a military man for many years now and he's told me a few things about war and peace, too...and I've stood by him during difficult deployments.  War is something that has affected my life and his on a very personal level.  Only I get the feeling Collins doesn't really understand war nor its combatants at all.  Not if I judge the content and overall tone of this book.<br /><br />I loved The Hunger Games.  I loved Catching Fire.  I was really excited about both of these books and told everyone I knew about them.  Finally!  A tough female heroine who shows just enough trace of vulnerability to let us know she's human.  She's not a chick lit bimbo giggling over boys or making her whole existence dependent upon them.  She is the anti-Bella.  Her life has been hard and experienced enough to tell her that love and romance are not as of utmost importance as survival.  I loved this about her character.  The flip-side of her was this ultimately selfless, compassionate young lady who would stand up to what is right NO MATTER WHAT THE COST.  I wasn't prepared to mourn the loss of the Katniss Everdeen I'd loved so much right from the first page.  The Katniss in this book is weak, always injured, always drugged up.  In fact, about 80% of this book, she is in the hospital or simpering, seething, and the toughest you really see her is when she's glaring at her sister's cat as Collins ends several despondent chapters with a chilling "And they knew what this must mean.  He/she/they would have to die".  J.K. Rowling already did a technique kind of like this in the final Harry Potter book...only hers showed an abundant joy in the ending.  The sacrifice of oneself - the retraction of having to make that sacrifice - the joy that comes from knowing the character was almost virtuous enough to make that sacrifice...Not here, though.  I'm not saying all of life is always a happy ending, but this book was ridiculous in the depressing department.<br /><br />This Katniss is brooding, dark, completely unlovable.  There is nothing redeeming about her character whatsoever.  She's not the ingenue draped in flaming fabric anymore.  You're not watching her grow into a beautiful, virtuous woman...You're watching her disintegrate.  She's a bitter, cynical, unpleasant anti-war narcissist.  She's not even a happy-go-lucky hippie.  She's the type of person that can't find any joy in life and wants to suck all the joy out of lives of others, too.  I hated Katniss in this book.  Some part of me thinks that was Collin's intention.  She was trying to display a Katniss with crippling PTSD forced to be the face of revolution who wants to STOP war because she's watched so many people die.  Sound the buzzer.  Collins got this dead wrong.  True warriors don't turn their backs on causes that are noble.  You absolutely can not compare the Iraq war with the war occurring in Mockingjay. The Iraq war does have reasons to be criticized, but the war for freedom from The Capitol in Mockingjay?  100% justified.  What bothers me most, perhaps, is that she got the warrior spirit wrong in so many ways.<br /><br />In 2003, a good friend of my husband's was killed in the Iraq war along with some other members of his unit.  What happened to him after these events?  Did he become a cold, uncaring narcissist?  Did he run off and join anti-war sentiment?  Did he turn around and say, "No more death!  I can't do this anymore!" No.  His friend's death made him want to see things through to the proper end - for his friend, for their cause.  Seeing friends die makes you want justice and to see through the mission their friends died to accomplish, not to call it quits and live in terror. Anyone who reads this and knows anything about war and those who fight them knows this.  Nobody is saying war is a good thing.  Nobody thinks that.  However, some people view it as a necessary evil and want good in the world, but know it can't be achieved until the bullies are gone.  In Collins' world, THIS makes THEM the bullies and that simply isn't true.  The big flaw in Collins' work is that she has set up a world in which only the biggest wimp would say that war was not justifiable...and then she turns all her characters into self-loathing simpletons, who still have to fight simply because she needs enough blood and gore to make her 'war is bad' point.  She's trying to create a war with no bravery, no honor, and nothing but war criminals and stupid pawns who do what they're told.  She's taking characters you grew to love and turning them into war criminals.  Supposedly to show you that war criminals were people just like you and me and that the simple act of participating in war makes you one.  Bunk.  Totally bunk.  The reason Katniss becomes such a depressing sack of hatred is supposedly because she participated in war.  Yes, it's a groan-worthy thing to do to impressionable young minds reading her work and to adults who also happened to admire the once-strong Katniss Everdeen.<br /><br />You then have Collins trying to introduce the character of President Coin.  She doesn't give enough background on Coin and honestly, if she had wanted this character to matter at all in her storyline, this character should have been around from the first book very prominently.  Coin has no character development and neither do any of the new characters she tries to introduce.  I guess the big moral agenda here seems to be that nobody wins in war and BOTH sides are equally bad, but its such a naive point of view, especially given the world that SHE created.  Collins created a world where everyone is oppressed by a viciously cruel Capitol.  She called the shots in creating those who do what's right and stand up against tyranny...Yet, when it comes time for those rebels to rise up, Collins decides she's going to paint them with a broad brush and make them no better than The Capitol.  She's trying to do some scenerio here where nobody wins in war and everyone is equally guilty.  If you look at the situation, there is a clearly GOOD side emerging...and then Collins abruptly turns the tide and makes them ALL the bad guys by making Coin seem just as bloodthirsty as their nemesis President Snow.  Ah, but where does that leave Katniss?  She has to be painted as being no better than anyone else, too.  This leaves you with not one character left with an ounce of anything worthy.  Even Peeta, whom I was getting tired of anyway, with his uber-feminine wiles, becomes EVIL Peeta...who still possesses feminine wiles.  Maybe they'll live happily ever after while Peeta decorates cakes and Katniss is out hunting...Ugh.  No wonder Katniss can't love him - he's not a real man!  She's always waxing noble about saving him while he plays the darling, dejected one.  I was almost happy when he started showing some backbone...and then I find out he's been brainwashed.  Doh.<br /><br />In the end, what becomes of Gale?  He's eyebrowless and he has an important job.  Yay.  Prim somehow just apparates into harm's way.  The romantic triangle also ends in a whimper.  I didn't care about the romantic triangle and apparently Collins doesn't either.  However, it's there and you'd think it would be resolved in a way that evokes the emotions of the reader.  There was nothing here.  The last pages wrap up with whom she chooses and that's that.  Between the misguided anti-war theme of "nobody wins in war" and "people in positions of power will always be corrupt", you have rose-scented villians that cause traumatic reactions in Katniss every time she smells a rose (this is new - a new ploy Collins tries to introduce at the last second that we're supposed to take seriously instead of laughing about).  I have never been this disappointed after anticipating a book for so long.  If you've ever had someone try to tell you a morality tale...and their ANGER about the subject prevented them from illustrating their point in a valid way that you could take seriously, then you'll know what I mean about finding the same thing here.  This is terrible.  Completely unworthy of the first two books in this series where Collins writes brilliantly and vividly.  I truly hate saying any of this, but it's how I felt and several times I was insulted to see this portrayal of those who must go to war and fight - whether or not they agreed with the cause.<br /><br />Perhaps the most disturbing thing is that this is a young adult novel...I would implore any parent to read this before letting their children read it.  I defended Collins on the violence in previous novel, but I can not defend her here.  The violence is over-the-top, ridiculous, and much of the time adds absolutely nothing to the story other than to cover it in blood, guts, and melted flesh to satisfy the weakly honed 'War is bad -- mmkay?' point.