*WARNING: SPOILERS*<br /><br />I found the entire story to be very sloppily written.<br /><br />In some ways, yes, I agree that this story is a war-story, and some of the scenes were rather poignant and helped invoked the theme that yes, war really really sucks. There's no doubt about it.<br /><br />However, I don't think this was great literature. Actually, comparing it to Twilight, with such scenes as the "let's talk about who the girl is going to pick while she's asleep" and the fact that whenever a major event occurs Katniss is conveniently in the hospital or unconscious and needs to be told about it later (whatever happened to show, not tell, Collins?), is not that far of a stretch. The characters that we fell in love with throughout the series, the reason the Hunger Games was wildly popular in the first place, were mysteriously missing the entire last book. Katniss was hollow and dead, Peeta was absent and even absent when he was there, Gale STILL had no personality, and Haymitch lost his sarcasm and spunk. I'm serious about Gale: whenever he talked or ranted about the Capital, it was like Katniss pulled a switch, refusing to let the reader understand this character at all. And Haymitch, while in the first books he seemed to have his hand in all the cookie jars, in the last book he was strangely uninvolved in the entire scheme to take over the Capital. All of them were "there" by name, but not by personality. What was the point of having them there if none of us could recognize them? Why not just write an entirely new book with new character names to apply to these misfits? It didn't fit at all. And, yes, there is nothing wrong with having characters who are affected by the horrors of war. I was actually impressed at the beginning by how Collins developed that sense of hopelessness. However, these were no longer the characters we fell in love with, nor did they share the relationship dynamics of the first two books.<br /><br />The pacing was also off completely. There was no real build-up, nothing was accomplished, and it just sort of sputtered off into nothingness at the end. I understand that this is supposedly "realistic", but at the same time it was just too dull and it dragged. Collins is a great action writer, there was no reason it should have had been that way. There are plenty of books that show the destitution and hopelessness of war without dragging, so you can't tell me that there are no other ways to present this other than what Collins gave us. Prim and Finnick died without a moment's thought or a chance to grieve, and we know this is not how Collins usually writes it, just based on how she presents Rue's death in the first book. And then to lead us on, for pages and pages filled with character deaths and confusing horrors (I can't be the only one who failed to understand the setup of the Capitals and the bizarre pods) only for Katniss to just pass out again with nothing accomplished. It was like, thanks Collins, for a completely pointless drag of action for no reason whatsoever. At least the first two books you gave us had action scenes that actually meant something to the overall plot structure.<br /><br />So, just overall, it was rather sloppy. Poorly paced, poorly written, characters forgotten or abandoned, and nothing we loved about the first two books even encompassed within the third book at all.