So I will not expound too much on the first set of reasons why I did not like this book, namely the plot developments and the various terrible things that happened to basically every main character. That part sucked and was a real letdown after investing two books in the cast. If you want to read about that though you can enjoy basically every other negative review. The real reason why I am writing this review is to complain about what I see as the lack of well executed action scenes. Granted this is in the eye of the beholder, and to a degree I have been spoiled by a lot of really great Tom Clancy action sequences but the issues is still a problem.<br />  Part of the problem comes from the fact that Collin's steps outside her comfort zone in writing the action sequences in the first place. The first two books focused on individual fights with relatively close quarters combat, and although there were parts that I did not particularly like, the scene with the Muts in the first book comes to mind, it was decent on the whole. In the third book though the fight shifts to the national level, and many of the scenes are poorly implemented. Good examples would be the scene where the missile strikes occur, or the scene where Katniss and Gale are shooting down hovercraft. In the first they just hide in bunkers and absolutely nothing happens, meanwhile the second actually has something interesting happen, but the idea of shooting down fast moving, mostly invisible aircraft with exploding arrows strains the bounds of credulity, and once more the implementation involves them just sitting there for a while shooting arrows in a boring fashion.<br />  I do not think that the book should be entirely action oriented, but just like in the other two installments, action anchors the rest of the plot and drives the character development forward, unlike the other two books though, in Mockingjay it is implemented very poorly and makes the book boring and disappointing to plod though, especially when paired with unfortunate character development.<br />  Finally, in response to the people justifying all the terrible things that happened to almost every main character as realistic, I should point out that most people do not read fantasy to be depressed and see their favorite characters tortured, killed and mentally scarred. If people actually wanted to see the sad reality of war they can go sign up for the army or read a horror novel. And lastly it occurs to me that reading Stalingrad by Antony Beevor was actually less depressing than Mockingjay. You can take that however you want.