SPOILERS AHEAD!<br />My major problem with this book is I don't understand what happened to Katniss Everdeen. Her character not only doesn't grow, but regresses. Throughout the series, we kept hearing that she "just doesn't know the effect she can have". Well, after the conclusion of this series, I don't know either. The Katniss in the first two books may be thrown into situations beyond her control, but she refuses to back down. She makes her powerful anti-Hunger Games statement wih her treatment of Rue. She shows her refusal to be a pawn of the Capitol when she takes out those berries. In Mockingjay, she spends most of the time moping around or filming propaganda films. I kept waiting for her to realize her power or to truly step up and "become the Mockingjay", but she NEVER does.  In this book, she all but abandons Peeta. She leads her team on a pointess mission to kill President Snow, leading to the deaths of almost all of them, which becomes all the more obvious when the rest of the rebels arrive at Snow's residence at the same time she does. If she hadn't been so selfish at that point, she could have arrived at the capitol with the rebels and saved her team and probably her sister as well (you know there is no way she would have let her sister go on that mission). I understood that when she told Coin that there should be another Hunger Games, she was just playing for time, but shooting Coin could have been the perfect time for her to truly become the Mockingjay. For her to make SOME kind of statement. Instead,  she is taken into custody where she half-heartedly tries to starve herself. This is not the Katniss of the first two books. This is NOT that Katniss that people were looking to and willing to die for. Where is the Katniss that Cinna was "betting on"?  Where is the Katniss that  the people of District 11 were willing to flout the Capitol for, in order to give her a salute? I seriously hope that when they make the movie of the third book, they completely change it up to truly give us a strong character (even if flawed) that we can root for. Like another reviewer mentioned earlier, I was hoping for a female Frodo or Harry Potter, but instead, she just became more and more a pawn.<br />I know a lot of the people who are giving this better reviews think that those of us who are disappointed are just unhappy with who Katniss ended up with in the love triangle.  I don't think that is true for many of us. I actually had no preference over who she ended up with. Both Peeta and Gale had their strengths, but I always figured that in the end, she would end up with Peeta. My problem is with the way it was "resolved". I don't think the author stayed true to the characters.  I have a hard time believing that the Gale who protected her family and his for so long would have left Katniss alone for so long in this book. Other than a brief hunting trip at the beginning, they are hardly ever together.  And to imply that it is his fault that Prim died was such a cheap cop-out (and it could be argued that is was just as much Katniss's fault since she was not there to protect her sister while she went on an unauthorized mission to kill Snow). I also don't believe that Gale would have just left her to go off for a "fancy job" in another district, no matter what had happened. Katniss never actually MAKES a choice - its more like it is decided for her. Peeta is the one who comes back. I wanted a strong Katniss who could make a decision for herself, but instead ended up with a girl who just let things happen to her. Such a let down after such a powerful start.