I saw the movie over the weekend to preview for my almost 12-year-old (the answer is "not yet" and she's not happy - oh well).  I was intrigued so I read all three books.  Loved the first two.  Devoured them.<br /><br />Then Mockingjay.  Wow.<br /><br />I'm so totally disappointed.  I've read a bunch of reviews.  I really agree with what many of you have had to say about your disappointment with this book.  I'm nowhere near able to write a review of the writing or anything...this is just my reaction as a reader of the story.  Katniss as a character just dissolves.  Someone somewhere else said, and I agree, that I wouldn't have really cared that much if Katniss died.  She wasn't a hero.  She wasn't a failure.  She wasn't anything. She was hollow, a nothing.  That's just boring.  I guess that was supposed to be a lesson on how awful war is?  Not like we don't know that already.  I'm so tired of anti-war lectures.<br /><br />There was such brilliance to the whole revolution idea.  The idea that tyrannical governments can deprive people of their humanity.  But humans have inner strength to overcome tyranny.  The idea that Katniss could provide that spark. The idea that District 13 could be a beacon of hope and sanity and human determination and perseverance.  Then it turns out there was just more weirdness and cruelty in 13.  So what's the meaning there?  That all governments are bad?  That all leaders are bad? Strange.  I was really hoping for a resolution to what happened in the country at the end.  Did the people merely survive?  Or did they create a place of freedom and peace? How did the new president work out?  Did she create a republic and liberty?  If not, why not?  That would have made an awesome epilogue.  And it was strange and disappointing in the way that certain people died off.  Prim, obviously.  Gale vanishes into the world without a trace.  Katniss's mom, really? She doesn't want to see her daughter?  Finnick?  For crying out loud.  He gets killed off like one of those no-name red shirts in Star Trek.  Peeta, the one character who really had something interesting going for him, the one guy who knew from the very beginning that he didn't want to come out of the games a changed person, dead or alive.  What a story that would have been!  Instead, he plants primroses and we're supposed to get something from that?  And come on, Katniss gets a trial but she's drugged up for the whole thing?<br /><br />I really held out hope in those last few pages.  That there would be some meaning.  But alas, anti-war preaching really has no point other than to preach from on-high.  It's so one-dimensional.  Bah.  Sorry for the rant.