Other reviewers have already covered the problems of poor character and plot development, so I figured I'd delve into new territory: the hugely problematic "messages" Collins is sending through these books, especially Mockingjay. I enjoyed these books as pure entertainment, but so many people seem to be talking about them as more than that -- as satiric commentary on reality TV, for instance -- and that to me opens quite a few cans of worms.<br /><br />First, while Collins writes leaps and bounds better than a certain other extremely popular female YA novelist, I note one troublesome similarity: a female protagonist who is strong and deeply caring about those she loves and also clearly drop-dead gorgeous though of course she's totally unaware of this as well as the fact that there are not one but two fabulous guys in love with her, neither of whom pressures her for sex but is contented with sweetly intense platonic love.  Yeah, because that's what all teenage girls are like, and it in no way builds unrealistic romantic ideals in the heads of young women.<br /><br />Second, Mockingjay's politics are as messy as its plot.  Despite the grimness and violence of this book, ultimately Collins seems to be pushing an inoffensive, overly simplistic quasi-libertarian ideology -- less pretentiously put, she believes that individuals should have freedom.  Yay, individual freedom!  Boo government, and boo rebellion against government for that matter because, as Mockingjay suggests, any organized rebellion against government is probably just as bad as the government itself.  So Katniss's ruthless killing is OK because she's fighting for herself and her loved ones, and Peeta's lying about things like the pregnancy is OK because he's doing it for her.  Good to know.<br /><br />Third, I was delighted that the first book depicted Katniss as having "olive skin," meaning that she wasn't necessarily caucasian.  But not much is made of this detail going forward, disappointingly.  What's more, readers are almost certainly going to identify with Katniss rather than the superficial twits in the Capitol.  We always prefer to identify with the oppressed, after all.  Problem is, most of Collins's readers, certainly the American ones, are probably closer aligned with the Capitol.  If she had made District 12 in Mexico or Southeast Asia, then the books would make much more sense as a real-world satire.<br /><br />Finally, I can't see that Collins has anything particularly revelatory to say about reality TV.  Reality TV is fake.  Gasp!  Really?  Nor does she have much to say about contemporary American society.  This book has more in common with Orwell's 1984 than 21st century America.  Her depiction is simplistic:  there are bad guys who subjugate the poor through entertainment.  In our world it's a whole lot more complicated than that, because those who are subjugated are just as enthralled by the entertainment as everyone else.  If you identified with Katniss and cheered for her and frowned angrily at all the horrors they went through, why did you enjoy reading about the games so much?  Because we're all guilty -- a point missed entirely by these books.<br /><br />Yeah, I know, this is way too analytical for a bunch of fun teen books, but whatever; whenever I hear intelligent people praising a book to the skies, my crap detector comes out.  Sorry.