"Mockingjay" is the most gruesome book of the "Hunger Games" trilogy, describing the horrors of war and how people are forever changed by it. If you haven't read it yet, do not read on now, as it is impossible to review this book without including some spoilers.<br /><br />After surviving two rounds in the arena, Katniss must now fight her final and toughest battle, by taking on the leadership role in a world gone crazy by war and suffering. And true to real life, this novel does not mince words when it comes to describing the atrocities of war, nor does it give any false hopes. War changes people and robs them of their innocence forever. There is no happily-ever-after, and no glory in war. Good people die, and hope dies with it. It's the reality of war, and I admire the author for not trying to glorify it.<br /><br />My issues with this last instalment of the trilogy are with the way it is written, especially the last 1/4 of the book, in which the author tries to pack so much horror that the scenes take on a nightmarish quality, leaving the reader confused and somehow cheated. There are a lot of loose ends, and unexplained events. How did Prim suddenly end up being in front of Snow's mansion? How did Peeta somehow sustain the same injuries as Katniss? In the rollercoaster ride of horror that forms the climax of the book, the reader is suddenly left out of the loop but instead is given a mere summary of events which destroy every assumption and belief the reader has formed so far.<br /><br />I hated the ending. Not because a lot of my favourite characters were lost (which is after all the reality of war), but because the characters who did survive were annihilated in other ways, by being so fundamentally changed by circumstances that little of their original personality remained. Yes, people are changed by war, and their spirits can be crushed beyond repair. However, I have met holocaust survivors who have retained a joy for life that seems impossible when knowing of the horrors they have gone through. So I was somewhat confused as to the message the author wanted to convey. Yes, war is horrible. But if all hope is lost, and there is nothing left to live or fight for, what was the point of the story? For me, the triumph of the human spirit over tragedy and injustice is the one thing that makes everything worthwhile. Without that, we may as well give in to oppression, as the alternative is even worse and there is no hope for a better future. By losing the essential characteristics that made Katniss and Peeta heroes for me in the first two books (Peeta's inherent goodness and Katniss' feisty spirit), all that was left for me in the end was a feeling of despair and hopelessness.<br /><br />All in all, I feel that this book could have been so much more by staying true to the personalities that were developed in the first two parts of the trilogy. However, the book sends a strong message regarding the horrors of war, which took courage to write and make reading it worthwhile - just don't get too attached to any of the characters!