Let me just state that I'm not saying that the book or the writing style was bad but... Battle Royale came out before and it was much better, more tightly plotted and it left me feeling what this book was unable to make me feel which was sad and angry.<br />In this case I completely blame Katniss for this little hicup.<br />Katniss as a the main character was dull, cold, prickly, not engaging... I kept scratching my head going 'why does Peeta or even Gale like her?'. I kept wondering why her? Why this girl who by her own admition was only made to stand out by Peeta and the help of her stylist the one that ignited rebelion? As a main character Katniss just lacked that something that made you want to root for her or even become attached to her. I mean in the beginning you never find out why people from district 12 were attached to her... she hunted? Definately not because of her warm and inviting personality because she didn't have one.<br />Then there was Katniss' undue angst over her non-existant love life. I mean she's killing people or running for her life and she's wondering 'Peeta or Gale?' or feeling guilty because of her developing feelings for Peeta because of her friendship with Gale because Gale has feelings for her that she doesn't share... Right, because when I'm killing people or watching other people be butcher I'm going to have moments where I feel all conflicted about who in my so cliche love triangle I should choose. It made me want to hurl. Why does every book that comes out now have to have a love triangle in the first place? Come on the concept that a person could be so very indecisive as to not 'know' which person they have feelings for is just annoying. Then add to the fact that the two mem (why is it always men by the way? I find the concept sexist that pretty much all the love triangles out there consist of the male characters waiting with baited breath going 'pick me!'.)are just hoping against hope that the women will turn their fickle affection toward them... again barf.<br />I have to say that there was also the characters self absorption, everything from the first book to the last was about oh you guessed it Katniss. She never looks beyond herself and what she's lost and her own pain.<br />It's been a while since I've disliked a main character this much.<br />On the whole the plot wasn't bad just something I've read before, the world the writer created was interesting but nothing out of the ordinary.<br />On the whole this book was just that so ordinary it was unremarkable.