I had a very hard time deciding how I felt about this book. It resolved the main issues, so there were no loose ends, which was great, but it wasn't enjoyable like the first two books were. I will say that I appreciate that Collins didn't try to end this series as though it were some kind of fairy tale. It's not some nice, sweet story, but rather a violent and disturbing one, and as such requires the reader's heart to break a little. A lot of people die. A lot. But more importantly, I think, those who remain seem so broken. I always loved that Katniss was never written as though she were indestructible. She's very human. But, the problem becomes that by the third book, she's been through so many horrible things that it really takes its toll. It's really hard to enjoy a book when the main character, whom you've grown to love, becomes so damaged that you know she won't completely come back. On the other hand, I don't think this final book was intended to be necessarily enjoyable, but rather to reflect the horrors of war and human cruelty. I wish that it had been done differently, but I'm not sure how it could have been. This book just lacked that certain je ne sais quoi that the other two had in abundance.<br /><br />I had the sense, when I finished the book, that the last third of the book was a waste of time. I don't want to put any spoilers in here, but let's just say that a lot of horrible things happen and a lot of people die trying to do something that they never get to do. You spend almost a third of the book following them as they try to accomplish this task, losing people along the way, and it just felt like such a waste at the end of it. I'm not saying that it should have ended perfectly as they wanted it to, but there should have been some kind of personal resolution to it, which there wasn't.<br /><br />On the more technical side, this book did not read at all like the other two for me. The first two books I just flew through. This one, I felt more like I was trudging along, praying for it to end. I had to re-read a lot of sections because I would get through several paragraphs and then realize that I had no comprehension of what I just read because I got bored halfway through. I suppose it may be the content rather than the writing itself. There is much less interaction in the book and more politics and war and darkness. I hated the epilogue. I wish she had just left it out. It seemed like it was thrown in there to try to make up to the readers who did want that fairy tale ending. It was very cliche. I would have rather imagined my own future for Katniss rather than being told at any rate.<br /><br />This book also read more like it had an agenda. One of the things I so loved about the first book especially is that it gives you so much to think and reflect on without being forced to do so, but this book felt very much like "Here! Think about this!". I feel that it was ended as it was to reflect this agenda rather than just following through with a character, if that makes sense. She also lost sight of her audience. The same person who will love the first book is typically not going to love the last because they are so disjointed. I love the first book. I don't hate this last one, but I certainly don't love it.<br /><br />Ultimately, I can only give this book 3 stars, although I still recommend it as it is necessary to finish the trilogy and the other two books are so worth reading.