After reading this book, I must say I have mixed feelings about its quality.  I understand and appreciate the author's desire to portray PTSD and the brutality of war.  I think it's great to get young adults thinking about these issues and realizing that there are worse things to worry about than who came to so-and-so's party and who didn't last night.  I thought the first book and, to a somewhat lesser degree the second book, did a fantastic job of that!  But in Mockingjay, everything just felt forced.  It felt as though the author first wrote down her theme (Why war is terrible and the real effects it has on people) and then wrote, making everything subservient to that theme.<br /><br />I think we have to remember a few things here.  This book is for young adults.  And, this is a trilogy.  One of my friends mentioned that as a stand alone book for adults, this would have been fair to middling.  But the losses that are depicted are written so quickly and the young reader is not given any time to process or deal with them. Yes, that's how it works in the real world of battle.  But there's a reason 14 year olds aren't heading into battles.  And when they've spent months investing in a series and then have the level of content hatcheted up to a level too far above so many of them---it's just not fair.  I think a some adults would have trouble dealing with the level of depression and despair in this novel. Teenagers already have such a high rate of depression, and their brains are literally not fully developed.<br /><br />Also, there were so many loose ends not wrapped up. The ending of the book felt so rushed and incomplete.  I'm not complaining that the author didn't spell everything out for readers.  I think she just did a poor job with the writing.  It was extremely anti-climactic, poorly put together, and unclear.<br /><br />Just because a book is sad and depressing and makes you come away saying "Wow, war is awful" doesn't mean it's a good book.  Was the writing good?  Was the plot well-formulated?  Were the characters gripping?  It felt like the author was just holding in mind the thought that she wanted to blow readers away with depressing PTSD, and she made every other aspect of the book subservient to that theme.  Look at any class or book or conference on how to write quality fiction---that's one of the worst mistakes you can make.  The depressing theme also doesn't mean the book is realistic.  In reality, I don't think Katniss would have been such a standout in terms of battle, when she's fighting with citizens from 13 who have been training for battle their whole lives.  The idea that she alone has what it takes to take out Snow, and that everyone in her squad agrees with her, when in reality she's a 17-year-old girl in the grips of often-disabling PTSD who barely made it through basic training and is barely holding it together...has no previous battle experience (The Hunger Games are just not like a real combat unit---yes, there's death but the dynamic is completely different than a real military unit)...I just found myself thinking, "Seriously?"  And that no one would have stepped in and stopped Peeta from being sent to the frontlines, when he was clearly so unfit for duty?  No on stepped in to stop Prim from being sent to the frontlines?  Not her mother?  Not Haymitch?  No one actually bothered to investigate what she was doing there even after she died?  So much about this book was completely unrealistic.  The rest of it was pointlessly depressing. Not the kind of depressing that makes a reader more empathetic in the future, or more understanding of how to avoid war.  Just needlessly, pointlessly depressing.  A lot of what I felt were such important points for kids to grasp were written so hazily that I think kids mostly missed them!<br /><br />This book could have been soooo much better.  I just feel the author really dropped the ball on on this one.  I'm glad for those of you who enjoyed it.  I just didn't have the same experience at all.