SPOILERS<br />After waiting months for the final installation of probably my favorite series I am left with a huge feeling of disappointment.  I loved book one and two and I just knew that book three would be the best of them all. But as I read this book I kept wondering who these characters were.  Where was the strong Katniss from book one and two?  The one who fought and won in a fight to the death?  In this book she comes across as weak and fragile.  She is constantly needing medical attention or is off crying somewhere.  She was tough as nails before.  And what happened to Peeta?  Katniss and Peeta's relationship was so bizarre in this book.  I know I read in couple other reviews the frustration with the ending.  Prim dying, Gale's future after the war mentioned as a brief after thought and even Katniss ad Peeta's life together in the end was unsatisfying.  The whole thing that started off this series was Katniss saving her sister from certain death by taking her place in The Hunger Games and then Prim dies in the end anyway!  What a waste.  I know that many say that the reason a lot of the reviews are so low is because we wanted that fairy tale ending where everything ended perfectly.  But I don't agree.  This whole series revolves around a bloody and sad life that these districts had to live through.  I really didn't see a perfect ending.  But I did hope that all of Katniss' struggles would not be in vain.  That her sacrifice for Prim and the sacrifices made by the other tributes in the second book would have meant something.  All it lead to was a big, bloody war that even when it ended left the people still in almost as bad a shape as before.  Another reviewer stated Katniss seemed empty at the end of the book.  That is exactly true!  yeah, she married Peeta and the had children but she doesn't seem happy at all.  I wish that I had stopped at book two and drawn my own conclusions as to the ending.  The only reason this is a two star instead of a one star is on the merits of the first two books.  I don't really have any positives for this book.  I will say that if you have been letting your teenager read these books and thought they were bloody or depressing in the first two, this book is much worse.  Be prepared for some pretty descriptive war scenes and overall despair.  If you are looking for a satisfying ending to a stellar series, don't look here.