It took me a couple of tries to get into this book at first. The overall story is solid but I found it difficult to really get attached to characters as it lacked interesting dialogue. In my opinion we should have seen more of Gale in the opening chapters so that we get a real sense of the love triangle that's to come and i really wanted to see more of Hamish as well.I was totally hooked when I reached the Hunger Games event, it was exciting, tense and gripping throughout, I couldn't read that part fast enough. The character building or lack thereof just left me wanting a bit more, perhaps that's been held back so that we can appreciate it in book 2??? I love a good romance element but it fell a bit short of what I've come to expect. To be fair i suppose book 1 is called the hunger games and i felt that part of the story to be completely fulfilling. I'm still interested to find out what happens next, I've held off on watching the movie until after the book so perhaps that will add more emotion to the story.<br /><br />Updated after movie - if I thought that the book was emotionally cold in places boy was the movie so much worse, poor camera work, poor casting, the games themselves were completely lacking in intensity compared to the book, they were lack lustre and lifeless, many details from the book were omitted. A huge opportunity was missed here to make the movie even better than the book and take it to places emotionally that the book never did. It has left me feeling cold. I know Jennifer Lawrence has unfairly received a hard time because she's deemed overweight, a beautiful girl, but on the casting as a whole you do expect the characters to be svelte, running around, climbing trees with ease etc. but it just looks like they walked into a regular high school class and picked a couple dozen random people to play these characters, which gave no credibility to the story as it contradicts descriptions given in the book. This has nothing to do with the review of the book i know, but I urge people not to bother with the movie, as it has actually put me off reading the next instalment.