I've been hijacked. There's no question to it. I am blinded with opinions that I will share. One thing, though, I won't give a whole summary of the book, but you'll see this: *ALERT* whenever I'll give something away. Don't say I didn't warn you.:)<br />~The ending. I finished the book, closed it, walked upstairs, and went along with my life as though I hadn't just finished a book as deep as Mockingjay. Then, the emotions came. I fought to stay stoic, but you can't fight a rush of tears. I am not Katniss, no matter how hard I try. *ALERT* I thought, not Prim! Not Finnick! It's not fair! Could Collins have ended the book wrapped up in a neat little bow, with Katniss skipping off into the sunset? No, she couldn't, because a. Katniss would be caught dead skipping, and b. she just fought in a war, and she's only 17! And she's on her own with a wack-job mentor (sorry Haymitch). The book was about WAR! That isn't resolved over night! But still, I disliked the ending. All Katniss does is mope around, and scream for Peeta when things get hard. Yes, yes, I know she just fought for her life and her sister and mother are gone, and there are stages of grief, I get all that. But it felt...incomplete. *Alert* Here's a bomb, dead Prim, dead Coin, Snow choking and dot dot dotting, back to 12, goodbye. Like, okay, now what? The book didn't feel resolved. The denoument was weak, and it was black and dreary. I wanted SOMETHING to go right for Katniss, but life ain't always easy in her world. Katniss had a hard life, first her father, then the Quarter Quell, then Prim. Ms. Collins, you could have added one ray of sunshine to Katniss's world, but now that I think about it, she did. Her children. But even that felt sad, because her kids played on a graveyard. No more Hunger Games, but Katniss will always have a scar, internal, and probably external because she was nearly scorched to death. Katniss annoyingly just hid in a corner or took a shower until she felt ready to face the world again. But she's never truly ready. She will always be sad and mopey until another ray of sunshine comes to her world. A fourth book wouldn't do it, but Collins had the power and didn't use it, and now Katniss is haunted by fluffy snow, and the stench of genetically-enhanced roses.<br /><br />~Gale or Peeta? I was so sure in the beginning Gale would be the one, but was I wrong, or was I wrong? Gale just seemed so right for her. Peeta just seemed like another boy from a classic story about the boy next door. Gale was always there for her, and he deserted her by going to find a job and comepletely forgot about that one day...*Sigh* Men. But Peeta never loved Katniss like Gale did. Gale said he should have volunteered to take Peeta's place to protect Katniss, and Peeta's love was just a story to survive. It should have been Gale. Really.<br /><br />Mockingjay didn't ruin the series for me, it was just the ending that made me pace around, thinking about things in my head, like a game.<br />"But there are much worse games to play."