I got interested in reading the series after I first watched the movie, which I was reluctant to do because of the Battle Royale copycat comparisons. Being trapped on an island and having to kill eachother (young adults) that is actually a television show, that idea has been used before. However that's when the similarities end.<br /><br />The first book is by far the best of the trilogy. The characters appeared so realistic, the battles were dynamic and entertaining. The cliffhangers were jaw dropping, and I could not just stop reading. The first book had me excited to read the rest, I wanted to find out what happens to the characters I rallied for. The plot, while there are comparisons to the 10+ year old series Battle Royale, I enjoyed the character's history as well as the SCIFI/futuristic feeling the series gives. The setting, the characters, the plot twists, the romance, the action--it was epic. I felt the first book is a million times better than any fad novel series than before, I understood the hype.<br /><br />In the third book, The pace is slow, the plot line becomes uninteresting, the main characters I fall for lose their likeability and become annoying--just like Harry Potter. The series that I couldn't stop reading finally becomes a series where I question if I should read the rest. The world Katniss and the world she lives in, it loses its fire and spark. I feel that Collins ignored the first book she wrote and completely altered the characters, the world, and everything about it in a poor, rushed manner. If Collins had stopped after book number 1, that would have been one of the best books I have ever read. But instead, it'll be a series I will probably forget.<br /><br />I hate when authors play god in their books, for no pointless reason, they turn the world they create in a manner that contradicts the first two books. What happened to strong Katniss, who was tough, but sweet, kindhearted, and noble? By the third book she is complaining whiny 17-year old girl who goes completely nuts. Peeta, the baker's son, I loved him. He was the best character from the book, he was quick on his feet, strong, and compassionate, he was so likable! By the third book, he goes crazy and hateful and especially weak in morale. Gale, Katniss's support system, they're fighting all of the time! "Let her pick the man she can't survive without", what a joke! . However, the rest of the deaths, what significance was it? I understand the theme of the final book, revolt, war, and change. However when I read a fictional books, I want to be transformed into the writer's world. People die in wars and revolt, but I could just pick up a banal newspaper or step outside. The fantastic world she created shattered in the finale. By the end of the series, some o the character's I root for meet their death, I don't experience sadness or sympathy like for Rue, I feel anger. I am angry because she has to kill every character to make a point. Rue's death sent a signal to the reader, that the Hunger Games are real and that people die. Her death was beautiful, significant, and moving. We don't need a watered down version 1000 times over. I know that in war and revolt, people change. But the characters lose their originality, their spark, uniqueness, and every aspect of themself. You can tell she was hurried in the final book to end the series, as a reader I definitely felt rushed. There was no real conclusion to the book.