**SPOILER!!**<br /><br />I finished this book about a couple of hours ago (and a year or so late, I know) not really knowing entirely how I felt; a certain satisfaction that the book was done, but also emptier than I was after reading the first two. I've read some reviews and I'm happy to see that very many people feel the same way I do. Everyone has pretty much been laying into the many problems in the book--bad editing, unfinished plot development, a terrible epilogue, undeveloped characters, an unfulfilled ending--but something else has really been on my mind that I don't think very many reviewers have fully touched. Suzanne Collins has truly failed to explain what really happened between Gale and Katniss.<br /><br />Okay, so maybe not every reader is like me, but I WANTED the two of them to end up together. So that does drive a lot of my emotions at the moment. But putting that to the side, if I take an objective view, I feel like even if a reader did want Katniss to end up with Peeta, the direction Collins had been taking during the previous two books called for a long life with Gale, not Peeta. Firstly, Gale was the main man she loved from the beginning--period. Not to say that a person can't be in love with two people, but Collins made it clear that Gale was the number-one man in her life. For example, during the first Games when Katniss had to play the romance angle in order to get sustenance, all that kissing made her a little confused at times but her thoughts always went back to Gale and how he would feel about seeing it. And then in Catching Fire, the burning kiss Gale gave her in the woods...all the guilt she felt whenever she was around Peeta, having to play kiss-up and plan for a wedding she preferred to have with Gale?? And what about when she was crying over his mutilated body, feeling that intense hate and jealously towards the phantom girl that never existed? Didn't she resolve then to stay in District 12 and fight with Gale? All of this is unaccounted for in Mockingjay, and a clear slap in the face to the readers.<br /><br />Gale, Gale, Gale, has been in our faces from the beginning. I always thought that Katniss loved Peeta in her own way because they shared the Games between them; he was irreplaceable in her life. But to turn around and love him in that way? After mulling over marrying Gale, you settle for Peeta? I know that the supposed reason is the possibility of his bombs having contributed to Prim's death. I don't know, maybe I'm overestimating Katniss or the bonds of a true friendship, but she knew that Gale had no control over what happened with things he may or may not have made. Maybe I could understand if it was some random person she was just beginning to trust but this is Gale...GALE! He loved Prim like his own family! You're really telling me she couldn't try to eventually look past that mistake, for the man she loved?<br /><br />Reading Mockingjay makes me feel like Collins wasted my time spelling out and cultivating the relationship that Katniss and Gale had throughout all of those years. Talking about those days upon days in the woods. Their striking similarities in their families and ways of life. The fact that they had the "Seam look" about them, so unlike Peeta. How many times did Katniss think to herself that Peeta wouldn't understand some particular thing, only Gale could? This is one of the things about MJ that really makes no sense to me, because it's like why bother saying all of that, if Katniss was just going to turn around and go with the guy who was so unlike her? To attribute her choosing Peeta to the fact that Gale is an angry rebel is just bad writing, because Gale was always that way and yet Katniss still loved him. Yes, Peeta is full of sunshine and happiness and charisma a lot of the time but, uhhh, right now (and apparently forever) he's not! Collins wrote him off as an empty void of a man, and so he's not looking much better than Gale at this point.<br /><br />Now I have nothing against Peeta, honestly. I may have really been rooting for Gale (just as I rooted for Jacob of Twilight; I just love the underdog) but I understand that Collins didn't see him in Katniss's future in that way...which is fine. But at least do the job BETTER. You can't expect me to fall so deeply into Gale and Katniss's relationship for two books, just to write it off in a couple of sentences. Give me a fallout, a real reason that their friendship is irreparable. Explain to me why, exactly, Gale has a "fancy" job ten districts away when that never seemed to be very much like him? After all those years and all of that fighting alongside each other, they really have nothing to say? And do a better job on Peeta, who I feel lacks terribly in this book. I personally think what he went through in the story was brave and touching and it would have been wonderful to see he and Katniss take those steps forward together...I mean, really EARNING their marriage.  Instead Collins just throws all of this in at the end as though this is supposed to pass for all that we've read between the three of these extraordinary young people. I guess she was just lazy or pressed for time. And that was at our expense.