First of all, and in all fairness, I must say that writing a conclusion to such a juggernaut as the HUNGER GAMES series is a thankless task.  And I must also credit Collins with giving this book new and different directions to explore.  For that, I was thankful.  What made MOCKINGJAY good but not great for me was the narrative pacing, especially during the climactic moments.  I also had a few quibbles with characterizations and the way the many scores were settled at the end of the book.  I'll avoid spoilers by speaking in general terms if you haven't read the book -- and I certainly endorse reading the book!  Three stars ain't just gravy!<br /><br />This book focuses not on any "games" but on the real thing -- a Civil War between the 13 Districts and the Capitol of Panem with President Snow at the helm.  It draws interesting parallels with modern wars and the United States in the sense that it shows the role of propaganda and how the media can be manipulated to froth your constituency up.  Thus, the character Plutarch is asked to exploit Katniss so that the Capitol's propaganda can be usurped by the Rebel's propaganda.  For anyone watching the nightly news, it should give you pause.<br /><br />The reader is patiently carried along as Katniss tries to work her way to the singular goal of personally killing President Snow.  Unfortunately, she must also deal with the leader of her own cause, President Coin, a woman from District 13 (a nuclear state, like the Capitol) who has visions of grandeur or her own (and who knows a valuable chess piece -- namely, Katniss -- when she sees one).<br /><br />The book both takes off and sputters with the climactic attack on the Capitol.  Among the obstacles for Collins are what I call "suspension bridges of disbelief."  That is, the reader must be willing to go along (or "suspend disbelief") with plot developments and I, for one, was not so willing in the methods she used with Peeta, Katniss's love interest.  To put it simply, his whereabouts first and his personality changes second occur a bit too conveniently.  Also disturbing was the narrative pacing.  There are beautiful and realistic stretches where Collins takes us door-to-door and block-to-block as Katniss & Company fight and claw their ways to the center of the Capitol.  But then the intense and realistic necessity of such description seems to be forgotten.  Gaps in time occur.  Major events happen offstage.  Anti-climactic resolutions happen too quickly to resolve plot issues that have been central to the entire book.  And finally, Katniss's last dramatic act is not unforeseen, but rather foreshadowed in a hamfisted way.<br /><br />This is why the book lost a few stars in my estimation, but as I said in the opening, bringing this beautiful series to a conclusion is no easy bear to wrestle.  I recommend the book and the entire series, but believe that some readers may be disappointed in the climax and in the characterization decisions made by Collins -- especially regarding Peeta vs. Gale.  A little more subtlety might have helped on that front.<br /><br />Oh.  And one final word.  When you reach the two-page Epilogue, you may wish Collins had skipped it altogether.  The gimmick here is sadly cliched and done in too many books and movies in the past.  Nevertheless, HUNGER GAMES fans, keep your eyes on the prize!  Three solid stars here!