Today I finished the Hunger Games trilogy. I began Hunger Games this past Saturday, ordered Catching Fire and Mockingjay on Monday, got the two in the mail on Wednesday and am now finished. Four days of actual reading time for three books, which seems like quite an accomplishment. I know most of my friends may be impressed with the speed in which I read, but I think finishing these books so quickly say more about Suzanne Collins than me.<br /><br />It has been a while since I have read such a captivating book. I originally resisted jumping on the band-wagon and reading the popular series. The books didn't really seem my style, and honestly, they aren't my style, but I decided to read them anyway after reading a good review of the series by one of my favorite authors. And I am so glad I did.<br /><br />The Hunger Games trilogy is really well written. The language isn't very poetic or beautiful, but the plot is extremely captivating. The story took a hold of me and I could not put the books down - until the final book that is, but we'll get to that in a minute. Collins dives the reader right down into the story, very vividly portraying both the characters and setting. The plot of Hunger Games is breath-taking. I literally held my breath in suspense at some parts of the story. Catching Fire, too, kept up a very quick pace. Mockingjay, however, left much to be desired. The story seemed to take a long time to get the action, and the sense of urgency felt in the first two books was missing.<br /><br />Overall I was just disappointed with the conclusion of the series. I had such high hopes for Mockingjay, and while it was well-written and just a great story in general, it had some huge flaws. Firstly, the deaths in the final chapters of the story were entirely too quick. Finnick, who became a very central character in Katniss's life, dies so quickly that I barely have time to acknowledge his death before the next. The reader has no time to mourn over the character or really even realize the magnitude his death must take in Katniss's life. The same goes for Prim. I didn't understand Prim's death at all. It seemed just thrown into the story. Earlier in the series I worried that Collins wouldn't have the heart to kill off any of the people Katniss needs. However, I was more disappointed when she did. Prim's death just seemed unnecessary. Even further infuriating is that she gets only a few sentences. I feel that Prim, the most important person in Katniss's life, the person Katniss would willingly sacrifice herself for, suddenly dies and then the chapter ends. I can excuse Prim's death, however, because it does add to the plot. I can see Collins' reasoning for killing Prim. What I cannot excuse, however, is the erosion of Katniss's character throughout Mockingjay.<br /><br />In the first book Katniss is a heroine. She is willing to sacrifice herself for her sister, she fights bravely and valiantly in the hunger games, she saves Peeta's life and even her own. I admired Katniss's fire. In Mockingjay, however, she is no longer the girl on fire. She is no longer a heroine. Suddenly Katniss is a little girl to whom the story happens. It irritated me how much she resemble Bella, of Twilight, sitting and waiting, doing nothing on her own. I understand that Collins' wanted to help the reader understand the brutality of war, the feelings of desolateness and fear Katniss must have felt. But I, the reader, needed Katniss to do something. I needed her to be something in the story. Katniss's transformation from the first book was almost unbearable to read. She spends a majority of the book either on drugs or hiding in isolation, and when she does act she inevitable injures herself and once again returns to drugs. Also annoying was that she seems to forget how much she loves her family. She pushes them away and leaves them several times with no explanation or goodbye. Several times she mourns for her father, but Prim and her mother seem to fall aside without any explanation until Prim's death.<br /><br />Prim and Katniss's mother aren't the only characters whose story seems to be forgotten. What happened to the Peeta/Gale/Katniss love triangle? I completely understand that Katniss's confused feelings about the boys is not the central story. It shouldn't be. However, it should be part of the story. In the beginning I was glad that Katniss wasn't choosing between Peeta and Gale. She loved them both, in her own way, but did not need to be in love with either of them. In the end, though, I did want her to choose. There is so much build-up in the book about the conflict between Peeta and Gale over Katniss, and then she doesn't even choose. I never really had a "team" throughout the series. I could understand why Katniss cared for both Peeta and Gale. The two offered very different things for Katniss. But I did want someone to win. But instead of Katniss choosing, Gale makes the decision. He drifts away and Katniss just accepts Peeta. Which was just so sad to me.<br /><br />Katniss just doesn't rise up to my expectations in the book. She just kind of dies to me. She was once so vibrant and so exciting; but in the end, instead of living she just exists. Everything I loved about her character seems to fade away by the end of the story. In Hunger Games she kept me turning the pages, exhilarated by her story, eager to read what would happen next. In Mockingjay, she caused me to slam the book shut. "I vote yes...for Prim."<br /><br />That one line honestly ruined the series for me. One thing I loved about the books was that they fought so intensely against the totalitarian regime and the inhumanity of the Capitol. They fight to change the people, but in the end, they're still the same. When the rebel tributes vote to continue the hunger games, it completely broke my heart. Especially with Katniss's vote. In the end it is revenge, not the desire for change, that wins.<br /><br />Katniss does redeem herself somewhat by assassinating President Coin, but I will never forget that she voted for the Hunger Games. After all she had seen, after knowing the utter inhumanity and injustice of it all, she is just like them. I cannot describe the sadness I felt when I realized nothing had changed and nothing would ever change for the people of Panem. Even though the Hunger Games are actually cancelled, forever, I am left feeling hopeless.<br /><br />"Are you preparing for another war, Plutarch?" I ask. "Oh, not now. Now we're in that sweet period where everyone agrees that our recent horrors should never be repeated," he says. "But collective thinking is usually short-lived. We're fickle, stupid beings with poor memories and a great gift for self-destruction. Although who knows? Maybe this will be it, Katniss."<br /><br />Sadly, I think that the people of Panem remain "fickle, stupid beings." The Hunger Games trilogy was marvelously written and I am sure I will read them again. The series was thought-provoking and heart-wrenching. It wasn't hopeful, though.<br /><br />I admire Collins' courage to avoid  stereotypical happy endings. I however, enjoy happy endings. Which is probably the root of my disappointment.