I loved the first two novels. Actually, the second half of Catching Fire was my favorite (it was less stressful reading about older people fighting to the death than young, fearful kids). Mockingjay was a huge disappointment. Instead of feeling hope after finishing the last page, I felt depressed and deflated. The author didn't seem to put too much effort in the ending or the whole Katniss/Peeta/Gale love triangle.<br /><br />People bring up the point that this book is realistic, that it shows us the devastating effects of war and senseless killing--and that PTSD will ruin your life. My parents, and even my oldest brother, have PTSD. They are survivors of the 1970's Cambodian Killing Fields. My parents had to watch people who helped them survive die at the hands of the Khmer Rouge for 3-4 years. They lived through hell, they have nightmares and occasional flash backs now. But instead of letting what happened in the past destroy their lives, my family came out strong. They don't feel depressed in their day to day living--they feel grateful for a sense of peace and not having to live in fear in their daily lives. My parents have four grandchildren, their children went to college, grad school, got good jobs, etc. My father is content with his gardening, taking care of their cats, watching baseball and football. My mom loves to socialize and be the life of a party. For some people, when they experience something horrific, they turn it around and instead of being depressed and fearful they are even more grateful than ever of the small things--like having enough food, having your family and loved ones around. I know not all survivors of genocide or war are as resilient and succumb to drugs, alcohol, depression. I just pictured Katniss as being one of those who pulled out strong and made something good out of the horror she experienced. I wished she gave us the sense of hope, that her world and children are okay. Instead, I get the sense that her kids will develop mental health issues (generational depression) and that her world is bleak. Katniss voice just seemed so depressing--so void of hope.<br /><br />If you want to read well written and thought out dystopian books, try Louise Lawrence's "Children of the Dust" or Margaret Atwood's "Oryx and Crake."