Mockingjay, the final volume in Suzanne Collins's Hunger Games trilogy, is a dark and depressing tale of war and its aftermath.  Seventeen-year-old Katniss Everdeen has been enlisted by the so-called rebel government in District 13 to play the role of symbolic hero (the "Mockingjay") in their war against the corrupt government in the Capitol. Reluctantly, Katniss agrees.  But it becomes clear very quickly that District 13 isn't very different from the Capitol government it's trying to overthrow.  Everything seems to be corrupt in this very bleak future world.<br /><br />This isn't an easy novel to read.  Katniss is depressed most of the time - she's moody and frustrated, and her actions seem motivated more by resignation than by belief in anything.  She has lost one of her boyfriends from the first two volumes (Peeta has been brainwashed against her and is held hostage in the Capitol for the first half of the book), and childhood friend Gale spends more time making snarky jealous comments than he does acting like a potential lover.  So readers looking for a resolution to the romantic triangle that played center stage in both of the first two novels will likely be disappointed.<br /><br />What works in this book is its realistic tone - Collins does a commendable job getting her readers to see what it might be like to live in a world where the government forces children to kill each other for the entertainment of a TV audience.  I can't blame Katniss for her depressive state, and I think it's more than believable that her focus on which boyfriend to pick gets pushed to the back burner while she plots to assassinate President Snow.  This is war, after all, and war is horrible and depressing and dehumanizing.  To make matters even worse, even after the war is over life isn't so great.  A lot of people die in this book; some of them are characters we've grown to love.  But that's what war is, and it would have been disingenuous of Collins not to be honest about that.<br /><br />At the same time, what doesn't work is the novel's ending.  [SPOILERS AHEAD - please don't continue reading if you haven't read the book]  Collins attempts to wrap up Katniss's romantic life in the final five pages - she ends up with Peeta almost accidentally.  She doesn't choose.  She doesn't even think much about her feelings.  Gale is just gone, without explanation (to take a "fancy job" in another District) and Peeta is just there, baking bread.  Gradually, Katniss and Peeta grow closer, begin to kiss again, admit they love each other, and get married (all this is explained in one short paragraph).  That's it.  In the novel's epilogue, we learn that Peeta and Katniss have two children, an unnamed boy and girl, who will one day have to be told their parents' roles in the horrible history of their people.  Katniss worries about this.  She still has nightmares.  But things could be much worse, says Collins, so it's OK.  It's also very, very sad.<br /><br />I loved Hunger Games.  I liked Catching Fire.  I appreciate Mockingjay for its courage and its willingness to be "real" when so many YA novels are not.  This isn't a fantasy series - it's post-apocalyptic fiction that rises to an adult level.  Still, I wish Katniss had been stronger and more self-sufficient.  At one point in the novel she overhears Peeta and Gale talking about their mutual love for her, and Gale predicts she will end up choosing whichever one of them she can't live without.  I almost wish she proved she was strong enough to live without either of them.  In a way, that's the ultimate point of her victory over both the Capitol and District 13.  She is strong enough to act on her own and to act in her own name - or she should be.  This is what is lost in Mockingjay.