Just finished The Mockingjay.  With a decent screen writer these should make good movies.  But wait for the movies.  Don't read this tripe.  I liked Book 1.  Didn't love it, but it drew me in.  It sets up an interesting, dystopian, post-apocalyptic society with good action and basic characters that you can relate to.  Books 2 and 3 were just bad.  I kept hoping for a character, any character, to behave like an actual person.  Or at least behave in a manner consistent with their previous development.<br /><br />I see a lot of people comparing these books to Rowling's novels.  Here's the difference.  Rowling's characters act like real people.  They behave in a manner that's consistent with the character that she's developed.  In repsonse to circumstances, no matter how fantastic, they react in ways that you can believe.  Katniss is set up as an expert hunter, who can kill, skin and clean her game.  She's the sole provider for her family and has dealt with horrors her entire life.  She's been raised in a mining camp where her father was blown to bits.  Every year she's been forced to watch two of her schoolmates and 21 other kids get executed on television.  She has no problem volunteering for an ordeal where she knows that she'll have to be prepared to kill 23 other young adults.  Later in the series she has no qualms about gunning down unarmed civilians and  anyone that crosses her path (read the last 4 chapters of the Mockingjay for some really incredible scenes of mindless slaughter) but runs away and hides in a closet when her drunk mentor makes a snide remark about her love life.  That's bad character development and it's annoying.  The whole series was annoying.  Just really, really annoying.  How am I supposed to relate to or believe a character that can shoot an 18 year old in the face with an arrow but spends half of the third novel either unconscious or drugged up because of her inability to handle some awful things that happen in the course of a war?  I know I'm not the target audience for these books, but I'm not the target audience for Rowling or Lewis either.  And those are good reads.