So I may be the only person in the world who actually did not particularly like this book. I found the storyline to be VERY disturbing and not something that I wanted to read about. All I could think throughout the whole book was how absolutely sick and disgusting it was and that really turned me off from the whole story. I thought the characters were somewhat shallow (but since they had to be all for themselves then I guess that makes sense) and the storyline - while original - was very familiar. The undertones of the story very much reminded me of the Uglies series by Scott Westerfield (even though the plot was very different I felt like I was reading the same story). I found the main characters to be weak and unlikable (I did like Gale but he just wasn't in the story enough for me to get a real feel for him). I also did not like how the author never clarified what went on in the past to make the world the way it is in the story. We read that The Hunger Games are a sacrifice but we never fully understand why.<br /><br />Also, (and this really bugged me) what was with the mutts at the end of the story? I don't understand how the author just threw them in there and never explained them! Were they genetically made? Are the tributes not really dead? I kept expecting some kind of plot twist to happen where we found out that the tributes never really died...<br /><br />Overall I found the message that this book sends to be horrifying. There is no moral twist at the end for the readers. It basically sends the message that you can only depend on yourself to live and we all know that is not true! This is certainly not a book for children or teens - why this is popping up on school reading lists I can not fathom.<br /><br />I agree with a lot of readers about this being a fast paced and quick to read book (I read it in one day easily) but this does not make it good! If you are a parent I highly recommend you read this before letting your child pick it up. I was afraid I was going to have nightmares afterwards, I can't imagine how this could damage a young child!