This is a review of the third book of the Mockingjay the third book in the hunger games trilogy.  The first book Hunger Games, I liked. The second book Catching Fire, I tolerated.  But this the third book, I hated. I know that is a strong word, but I truly feel that way.  I have never been more frustrated reading a book than I was with Mockingjay.<br />After reading Hunger Games (the first book), I had to start reading Catching Fire, right away.  Hunger Games was a creative orignal premise and mostly well written.  But during Catchin Fire,  I found myself putting my Kindle down and walking away because I was so frustrated with the author. I managed to get through it and was seriously contemplating not reading Mockingjay. But I had to see how it all ended and dove right in.  From the beginning I knew I was going to hate the book.  I know this was written for a somewhat younger audience, (I am 27), but I don't think the author believes her readers have any intelligence. And the heroine of the story, Katniss, I found her excruciating during this book.  Not only did I want her to die in this book, I wanted to be the one to kill her.  Nothing played out the way it should have.  Katniss was a sniveling, whining, little girl, not the same girl who 'won' the Hunger Games.  As another reviewer said, she was just a pawn in everybody elses agendas. She had no real thoughts or ideas her own. And (spoiler, skip to next paragraph) her and the others voting to make another Hunger Games with the kids of the evil citizens of the Capitol? Ridiculous.  No way in whatever passes for Hell in Panem would that happen.  That single moment is what made me hate this book. There were several other moments that royally upset me though, including her and her team not even making it to the presidents mansion and her shooting Coin instead of Snow. There was absolutely no discussing really why she did that or the aftermath.  There was a so called trial, but we never got anything from that.  All we were told was she was found not guilty, no reasons were given for this AT ALL. Also her being 'imprisoned' back in her house and then she lived happily ever after?  No. Was not believable at all after all we had been given before this.<br /><br />The author would jump over important events in one sentence.  One second something exciting is going on, and the very next sentence it would be the next day.  She wouldn't even wait for the next paragraph.<br /><br />I would not recommend this book to anyone. But if you were like me and had to see how it all ended, then go ahead and read it but bear in mind, that it is a frustrating read, and you better have the time to finish all at once, because if you put it down, you may not want to finish it.