Suzanne Collins can create a scary and believable pseudo-future. She can't create likable heroines.<br /><br />The problem is that too often Katniss gives the impression of being barely functional on anything beyond a biological level. Yes, okay, we get it; a lifetime of being forced to play the structural pillars for her family after her father's death have basically left her more than a little socially handicapped since she doesn't spare a lot of thought for much beyond taking care of her mother and sister. But at this point in the trilogy, she's still misunderstanding the intentions of her friends and the people she meets because OH HAI IM KATNISS I DON'T UNDERSTAND PEOPLE'S MINDS I MISJUDGE EVERYONE LOL and it's getting really old. She keeps saying "What could he have meant by that?", and when the answer is painfully obvious it makes me wonder if she didn't sustain a whole bunch of head injuries that had to be edited out of the original book.<br /><br />It makes the predictable love triangle that springs up early on in the book even more painful to witness. Peeta's a nice guy, but that's basically his sole characterisation (oh, and I guess he likes to paint? WHAT A KEEPER.), and there's so little chemistry between he and Katniss that it makes his love for her seem silly and wafer thin. He says things like, "You're the only thing I have to live for," and "You're so amazing," which I suppose is romantic if you're an emotionally repressed teenage girl but doesn't really do a whole lot to provide a believable sense of passion and emotion between these two characters. At least Gale shares common interests and personality traits with Katniss, even if he should probably have BROODING HERO FOR HIRE(TM) tattooed across his forehead. Maybe they could go off in the forest and be boring together. Aw!<br /><br />The other, bigger problem tied to that is Katniss is an awful, awful narrator and her complete lack of passion in her delivery fails to engage you on any sort of emotional level. There's a scene midway through the book where she flees somewhere upon having a predictable bit of bad news dropped on her and starts screaming uncontrollably. Her emotions, related in her flat, deadpan delivery even when describing something that should be gutwrenching, cheapen the scenes that are meant to be powerful and instead leave me disinterested and disassociated from what's going on. And frankly for me personally that's too big an arrow through the heart of the book to ignore; if I could care less about the protagonist (and in fact just plain don't like her) then no amount of clever worldbuilding can save a story.<br /><br />Several times while reading the book I had to remark aloud, "Seriously?" and "This is stupid" and "But SERIOUSLY?" I admit I wound up skimming the last seventy pages or so. I just didn't care about any of it, and the few interesting concepts or characters introduced can't breathe alongside Katniss' unbearable navel-gazing. To be honest, I don't know if a different protagonist would have saved this one for me; Ms Collins' writing style is just too dry and tasteless for me to really get into. She has a lot of interesting concepts and clearly a very clever imagination, but her method of delivery doesn't feel like it's suited for a story that's trying so hard to connect with you emotionally and just fails on so many levels. We have the third book here (I bought them in a trio, and my husband pronounces them "... alright" after a heavy pause) and I'm not sure if I'll wind up reading it.<br /><br />TL;DR: If you liked the first book, there's no guarantee you'll like this one, so heavily laden with trite teen romance triangles and it's phenomenally bland heroine that it doesn't spend the time it needs to on plot and more substantial character development.