(Spoiler alert)I just finished reading Mockingjay and had to write a review because I am floored at how bad this book is considering I absolutely loved the first two books in the series. I understand that war is not fun and that this series is not Harry Potter, but I never expected this book to be so dark and well, just flat out not fun. The first two books were serious, but action packed and had a certain momentum that kept the pages turning much the same way the Harry Potter series did. But this book is so far different in tone from the other two novels in the series that it's really shocking. There is no momentum whatsoever and there were substantial portions of this book that I started to skim out of sheer boredom, which never happened when I read the first two novels. This book is so strange that the only thing I can really compare it to is the movie Apocalypse Now because it is such a pyschological nightmare and of course the theme in both is that war is hell ("the horror, the horror"). The only difference is that I loved Apocalypse now, but Mockingjay is one of the worst novels (and sequels) that I have ever read. The things Katniss has to endure in this book (district 13 basically as bad as the capital, Peta becoming crazy, her sister being killed in the end, Katniss being burned basically from head to toe) is just flat out brutal. I guess I am naive because I expected this book to be kind of Star Warsish with the districts (the rebels) taking on and beating the evil capital in a thrilling conclusion. I figured Gale or Peta would die heroically and Katniss would live happily ever after with the survivor. But instead Katniss ends up broken both mentally and physically. I assume the author was not satisfied with writing something that was just a fun piece of popular fiction (like the Harry Potter series) and instead wanted something that would be remembered with the great works of literature (1984, Brave New World, Ender's Game, etc), but if that was the attempt then she has failed miserably. All I can really say in conclusion is that like a lot of people who loved the first two books in the series and I had very high hopes for Mockingjay, but in the end it is one of the most bizzarre, truly ugly novels I have ever read. It is so bad in fact that it will forever cloud my opinion of the series as a whole.