...JK Rowling's problem is simple: She doesn't have anyone editing her anymore.<br />Whereas the first three books were a slim 300-400 pages, long by children's book standards but a good size for a real novel, things have obviously gotten out of control. The page size alone has ballooned to an unhealthy 897 pages. If Rowling things that she can hold our interest by casually dropping names like "Muddlewump" and "Fizz-Bangers", she's sorely mistaken.<br />I remember reading in an article that Rowling said the world is so filled-out, she could write a novel on every character who appears, from Draco Malfoy to Dedalus Diddle. This, my friends, is not necessarily a good thing. This means side plots galore - annoying, irrelevant side plots that plagued book 4, like Hermione's pointless campaign for the house elves, or the fake gold scam with the Weasley twins and Ludo Bagman.<br />Fortunately this time around, Rowling has focused in on the one and only plot that matters - Harry vs. Voldemort. Because Harry is the only person who matters, and she seems to have realized this. The book has instead another problem - it's too dark, too depressing, and for too long. Harry's story is no longer pleasant to deal with, because it is so utterly depressing and obviously deeply traumatizing to him. He is often in a state of shock, physical or emotional pain, or some kind of depressed stupor from all the horrible stuff that continually happens to him, and it's quite painful to read. The reader misses the old Harry of the first three books, who was in wonder and amazement at the magical world, and had dangerous adventures because he wanted to, not because they were brought upon him. It set a lighter tone for the books and now that tone has become too dark for even the mature reader to want to deal with. Certainly, it's too long to deal with the subject in such a manner. The trials and tribulations of Harry Potter become almost painful to read about - we the readers become desperate for someone to come in and say or SOMETHING positive that actually helps.<br />Much like the last 5 chapters of "The Goblet of Fire," Harry's problems are so monumental and overwhelming that no one around him except Dumbledore is able to begin to comprehend, much less help him solve, them. This time, the problems only worsen and Dumbledore, the all-forgiving, all-knowing plot device is often not present. There is no comfort for Harry and none for the readers. His friends, remaining family, and the adults surrounding him become irrelevant because they are simply not relevant to this main plotline that concerns on him and Voldemort, and therefore unable to give him even the lightest bit of advice. His old supports of Ron, Hermione, and perhaps even Neville and Sirius occasionally try to comfort him, only to be confounded by the gravity of the events surrounding him. Harry Potter the plotline has outgrown them all. He is no longer the Boy Who Lived But Also Goes To School And Is A Quidditch Player, he is merely the Boy Who Lived.<br />In an ideal world, where someone had the gall to stand up to Rowling and make suggestions, these might have been made:<br />Book 4 "The Goblet of Fire"<br />"Gee, do you think you could cut the elf plotline? And the blackmail plotline? And the Yule Ball that goes nowhere? And Reeta Skeeter?"<br />Book 5 "Order of teh Phoenix"<br />"Gee, could you please do something with Harry other than give him some new sort of deep-seeted trauma?"<br />Rowling needs to be told that makes fun, exciting plots that involve Harry in some way but are not horribly depressing.<br />I do not especially recommend this book. Well, certainlly anyone who's going to continue reading the series needs to read it, there's no way around that. But if you're going to get into the whole series (which is a worthwhile endeavor as a whole), don't get into it just so you can read this book, or you will be disappointed. Get into it for the wonder of book 1 or the magic of boko 3. Treat this one as rather long exposition on the horribleness of being Harry Potter and wait for the ending in book 7.