Okay, I have seen the first few movies, but hadn't read the books.  So, I ordered the package of the first 6 books in paperback that Amazon was offering and thought it was a good time to pre-order Book 7.  All of the items were coming supersaver shipping.  Well, the package of the first 6 books is on backorder and is not scheduled to arrive until late August!  You can imagine my surprise when I went out to the mailbox on Saturday (July 21) and there was Book 7.  What to do?!?!  I'm sorry, I probaby should have hidden it away for that time in the distant future when I would finish the first 6 books. But, I figured, what's the harm in reading a few pages....and once I picked it up, I couldn't put it down!  It was like I was under a spell or something....  Okay, so I didn't have all the context the first 6 books would provide, but I did have some gist from the movies.  Besides, a really good book will stand on it's own.  This one pretty much does.....though there are a few things that left me feeling disappointed.  The way the last Horcruxe was destroyed.  Of course, I had no idea about any magical powers for the sorting hat, but if Harry had pulled it out once, then why wouldn't he remeber that he could get it out again???  All that time looking for the sword and all he needed to do was sneak back in Hogwarts and get the sorting hat?  I think it's messy.  Also, letting a minor character (in this book) do the deed....another quibble.....Harry was a little too nice.  Didn't want to hurt anyone or anything.....just protected himself or stun people that were trying to kill him and his friends. Harry Potter as Ghandi or a wizard version of a savior.  He got very angry at times....but where did his creed of non-violence come from?  Maybe the other books explain, but it didn't make sense on it's own.<br /><br />I would have preferred an ending where Harry used the sword to kill the snake......letting others do the dirty work left me feeling unsatisfied.  He saw what the snake did to Snape. He knew it had to die.  It was a wimp-out on the part of Rowling.  It's like she couldn't let go of her baby.....didn't want him to really grow up.  Didn't want him to be a "man".  It's great if you can trick evil into destroying itself, but when push comes to shove, sometimes you have to do the deed.<br /><br />And the drama at the end made no real sense....after failing to kill Harry when he was just standing there in the forest, resigned to his fate, how could Valdemort think he could stand against Harry when Harry was up and challenging him, wand at the ready?  Why would he believe that something that had not worked before would work now?  That is the definition of insanity, but Voldemort wasn't shown to be that insane thoughout the book.  My ending would have had Harry save Neville, grab the sorting hat, get the sword, kill the snake as it attacked while Voldemort was stunned to see Harry still alive, and then an enraged Voldemort could be expected to attack Harry despite the fact that he couldn't kill him.  Or maybe, Voldemort would kill himself. Rowling, however, wanted to give Voldemort one last chance for what.....redemption???  The problem with that is simply this.......why?  Why would Harry do that?  Voldemort showed no remorse throughout the book....if he had, Harry would have known.  Why give him one last chance?  It makes no sense.