I'm late in reading these books, but I was determined to finish them all.  Not sure why, now.  The last book was in hardback and it was so heavy I had to cut it in half.  This was not my favorite book.  Actually, I liked the earlier books better when they were young kids playing Quidditch and exploring Hogwarts and fighting a few bad characters. I liked the chess game.  But as the series went on, it became more and more treacherous and bloody. It seemed incredible that all these wizards and witches, with all their magic couldn't get rid of one bloody monster.  I didn't expect that much mayhem.  I should have given this book a 2 instead of a 3. I was kind.<br /><br />I assumed the books were for kids. They're not. I wouldn't give these books to any kid under 13.  I lost track of the many, many names, which often changed it was hard to keep track of who was who. If that wasn't bad enough, the names were so queer, I couldn't remember them all.  Then there were a gzillion different wizards and witches, etc., who also kept changing. Sometimes they were good, and sometimes they were bad.  Never knew who was good or who was bad. Never figured out what horcruxes actually were. What were their purpose, anyway?  Off and on they seemed very important.  I must have skimmed through that part, or maybe it was in another book.  Anyway, the whole book was a conglomeration of spells, familiars, horrors, demons, attacks and worst of all, confusion. The best part was Hogwarts itself, which until the end, isn't even in this book.<br /><br />The story, imo, got lost within the plethora of names and events. Harry, Hermione and Ron could perform most any magic ever thought up in a story.  Aside from them, most of the characters were a variety of very weird and terrifying monsters disguised as wizards, or death-eaters or vice versa, horrible prisons, terrible deaths and murders all up against Harry, his two young friends and their every changing wands.  Not for young kids<br /><br />Please, don't compare it to Lord of the Rings.  Harry Potter is not great literature.