I think my favorite Harry Potters have been the first and the third so far.  They have been light hearted and eventful and have dealt with coming of age issues in a way that captures the interest of an adult without losing the interest of a child.  I can't imagine a better set of bedtime reading books to share with children even as old as 10 or 12 years.<br />Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, the fourth in the series, is another good one, but I found it difficult to get into after the first chapter.  The characters are again some of them charming, some of them intriguing, and the setting just as wondrous as in the other books, but here the narrative seemed to wander.  After a wonderful and arresting opening, the book seemed to stall out.  The gap between the almost Agatha Christie opening and the by now almost banal Qwiddich match left one wondering what the point of the whole thing was.  Rowling's stories heretofore have been fast moving, with few digressions and a tapestry of characters whose roles have been fairly clear cut even when they have been designed to throw the reader off the track.  (One is used to the latter device when one has read enough murder mysteries.)  Here it takes almost 500 pages before their purpose in the story becomes clear.  In fact it took the device of the Pensieve to bring the plot again into focus for me.<br />While it took me minutes to read the first chapter, and I was riveted again from chapter 29 to the end, the 28 chapters in between took me almost two months to get through.  In fact I only persisted because I was certain that the end would make them somehow more pertinent, and it did.  Unlike Rawling's previous three books, the chapters in this one seemed to lack the connecting suspense that kept me moving from one to the next in order to find out &quot;what happened next.&quot;  I could easily set the book aside at the end of a chapter and not get back to it for days, where previous books had been finished in a single day.<br />I still think these are charming books with much to say to everyone.  I can't imagine not having a complete collection especially for a family with young children, but  I think that this book is definitely the one for which I'd wait for the paperback edition or a lower price before adding it.