I was a reluctant, but fully converted HP fan.  I started reading the series after book 6 was released, but after finishing it in half a day, I read the entire series in the following week.  I re-read the series twice before book 7's release (once when the date was announced, and again this past week).  I made my husband accompany me to the movie release all because JKR insisted there were clues to the ending throughout the series, but that they would not be obvious.  WHAT A JOKE!!!  The only plot devices that weren't obvious and heavily discussed on fan site were those she seemed to create just for this book.  If you can read DH and know why the items in the title are worth having created for this grand finale, please share.  As others have said, there are gaping holes in the plot, grammatical errors, and editing misstakes.  There are at least two deaths that are taken for granted, but even after re-reading chapters to try to find what I may have missed, just aren't written until said persons are being mourned.  JKR promised certain storylines and she failed to present them here.  Answers she refused to give because they would give away too much, to put it mildly, just weren't relevant.  The language in this book is much more coarse, and though we were all expecting a darker book, it just doesn't keep the "magic" we've all grown to love.  Yes, there are some laugh-out-loud moments.  Yes, there are some sad losses, but I was more moved and surprised by Ron's growth spurt than anything that happened in DH.  The plot is so predictable (when it follows the world JKR has created in books 1-6) that I wonder if she wrote it using the predictions that were so abundant on the internet.  What a disappointing in to an otherwise wonderful series. I give this two stars because it IS the last book after all, and any fan will want to know the ending and parts are amusing.  Just don't read it looking for any real answers, or any real development of the characters we watched grow for the past 10 years.