I must confess to some disappointment here. No doubt this is due in part to the great expectations I had and the excitement I felt about getting my hands on Part V of J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter saga. I have long admired Ms. Rowling's imagination, plotting and characters and consider myself a big fan. I found the first two books charming, but Prisoner of Azkaban raised the story to a whole new level for me. With its complex plot, stunning reversals and poignant ending, it remains my favorite Potter novel so far.<br />  Book Four was overlong in my opinion, especially in the first ten chapters, but it improved for me in the rereading. One of Rowling's gifts has been how she times the introduction of a new character, setting or magical device to keep me enthralled even when the plot or subplot drags a bit. Examples in Goblet of Fire include characters like Rita Skeeter or the wonderful prefects' bathroom with its many bubbles and peeking mermaid. Nor are these additions extraneous. In Chamber of Secrets, Moaning Myrtle seems like a fun little extra to the Hogwarts family and then is revealed to have some important secrets.<br />  So we come to Book Five, and I can't help but feel that, despite the addition of one amazing new character and a few interesting set pieces, this lengthy novel doesn't come together as well as I had hoped. There is much to like. Rowling does a great job portraying Harry as an angst-ridden teen. Unfortunately, this doesn't always make for exciting reading. As a high school teacher, I tend to find moody fifteen year olds less than compelling, and Harry was tiresome company much of the time. But I applaud the way Rowling has Harry grow and change from one book to another, affected both by the amazing adventures he has endured and by the very act of growing older. And yet, the plot is surprisingly devoid of surprise or of crucial incidents, and the climax is the most disappointing of any of the books.<br />  Tons of new characters are introduced here, but it's surprising how few of them really register. Dolores Umbridge is a triumph of villainy. Rowling has created with each book a wonderful Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, and Dolores is no exception. I also liked Kreacher, the tragically stunted house elf. But most of the other new characters, both good and evil, appear too briefly to make much of an impression.<br />  What is more disappointing is the way many of the old characters are used. While Snape and Neville finally get further developed and thus more interesting, and Hermione takes her place as clearly the smartest and most invaluable of the heroic triad (future Best Girl for sure!), Ron is given nothing of interest to do, and Hagrid and Dumbledore are seriously compromised. It's hard to describe how without giving things away, but suffice it to say that, for me, Hagrid's giant-like tendency to lovingly put his friends in terrible danger is growing tiresome for me. As for Dumbledore, the whole book hinges on his making a choice that makes absolutely no sense, given the wizard's wisdom and previous actions.<br />  Having written all this, it seems almost ridiculous to complain. Rowling's saga is compelling, even when parts of it are less satisfying than others. I fully intend to reread Order of the Phoenix and expect to get more out of it the second time. (I also plan to listen to the fabulous Jim Dale act out the book; his interpretation of the hundreds of characters in each audio installment is nothing short of brilliant.) And I eagerly await the next book in the series.