The fifth book in the Harry Potter series came out yesterday, and I've just finished reading it.  Since I'd had it on order at Amazon.com since *March 2001,* I've obviously been waiting for it for quite a while.<br />Perhaps it's because I've been waiting for it's release for so long, but this book doesn't seem to measure up to the previous four.  As I read it, I kept waiting for something "interesting" or "big" to happen...but it never did.  Even the conclusion, which is always the most fast-paced, didn't rile me up and suck me into the storyline as it normally did.<br />I think the biggest reason it failed to deliver the excitement of the previous Harry Potter books is the lack or scarcity of new information about the wizarding world.  All of the previous books tell you something neat about Harry's world:  New spells learned, new creatures discovered, a mystery to unravel (for example, the mysterious hissing in the walls that ended up being the basilisk in book two).  Unfortunately, all those were either lacking in this book, or appeared to a lesser extent.  There were creatures that looked like parts of trees (akin to stick-bugs in the 'real world,'), and an admittedly interesting winged horse-like creature (nothing like a pegasus, however) which is visible only to those who have seen death, but no new spells that come to mind.  They focused on the oh-so-scary "O.W.L.S" exams and massive homework, but somehow still failed to instill a sense of urgency about exams in a reader.  Finally, Harry's adversary in the Order of the Phoenix appeared to be the annoyingly sweet, yet obviously evil, Ministry of Magic employee, Professor Umbridge, who J.K. Rowling successfully made us love to hate, but seemed to occupy more of Harry's thoughts than his fear of Lord Voldemort, other than Harry's annoyance that no one seems to believe either Harry or Dumbledore when they insist the Dark Lord has returned.<br />I'm sure there will be many readers who disagree with me, and I can't say it's not worth the read, but I'm just not able to give this last one the unending praise I lavished on the first book, despite having been (and remain) a die-hard Harry Potter fan.  I still look forward to the last two books, but I hope they have more substance and excitement than this installment, for all its length.