I have to start with the fact that I am a huge Harry Potter fan.  I have read many of the books on speculation, enjoyed talking to others on the forums, and tried to dissect the books to get clues for what was coming in this book.  I read the first three books back in 1999, and have loved watching JK Rowling grow as a writer.  It was so fun to read the books for the first, and discover all the hidden aspects of the story, especially when I re-read the earlier books.  I thought that she was a genius for her ability to hide things in the earlier books that jumped out once you read the later books.  I was so looking forward to finding out all the answers to all the questions that popped up.  Once I got the book in my hands, and started reading, my excitement started to fade.  After the first 4 or 5 chapters, I knew I was not going to like this book as much as the others.  First of all, there were just too many miraculous escapes to make the story seem plausible.  (Yeah, I know I am reading a fantasy story, but it seems that the rules JKR set for the magic world just come and go as she pleases.)  The book drags on and on and on with the three kids camping on their own for months and months and months.  I started getting the feeling that JKR was just bored with the story, and anxious to get it over with.  Just write and write and write, and who cares if the words are gripping or exciting.  There were certain parts of the story that had the old JKR popping through, like when they had the Pottercast.  But these are few and far.  I am not saying I disliked the story because it was so dark or because it was a blood bath.  I disliked the story because many of the questions we had were not answered.  The first 6 books led you in one direction, making you think one thing, and had a surprise that had you gripping your seat.  You could hardly put the books down, and when you found out that things were not the way you thought, it was exhilarating.  This book was lacking that.  The story was not at all exciting.  There were no huge surprises that knocked you off your feet.  There were barely any hidden clues from previous books.  The epilogue was a joke.  I read where she said it was written years ago.  Yeah, back from when she was not an experienced writer.  I am sorry that the series had to end with such a dud.  I truly would have been happier waiting another year or even two, just to have a book that showed that JKR poured her whole self into.  This one just seems to be so rushed.  Bam, kids get into trouble and BAM, they are saved.  Again, more trouble, and wow, look at that, they luckily are saved again.  They did NOT use everything they learned in their 6 years at Hogwards.  They survived from sheer luck or coincidences.  I mean, how many times can the same group get lucky?  Apparently, this trio is the luckiest kids around.<br /><br />If you really must read this book, then save your money and get it from the library.  This on is NOT a keeper.