Having had to wait a number of years for this book, I didn't know if I would still be in the Harry Potter fan club so to say.  I like a couple thousand/million other people ordered this book well in advance so I would have one of the first copies.  My wife nearly disowned me because I spent the better part of two days chugging through this nearly 900-page book.<br />J.K. Rowling once again has written another good addition to the ongoing series of Harry Potter.  My imagination and attention was kept alive throughout the entirety of this book.  However, I finished the book with an empty feeling having not been fully satisfied with its conclusion.<br />J.K. Rowling intertwined far too many stories and sub plots to wrap up at the end of the school year.  Dolores Umbridge character was over the top and often too distracting to the overall direction this series has been focused on.  A number of times I wondered if Umbridge or Lord Voldemort was the bad guy.  The disruption caused by Umbridge at the school of Hogwarts over shadowed the overall things I've really liked about this series.  I felt J.K. Rowling never fully closed out the Umbridge story to a satisfactory level.  The ending of the book was like watching "Home Alone Part 22" where childish endings show a stupid person running and screams out of a building.  J.K. Rowling closed out a book long story about Umbridge in three paragraphs, verses the couple of chapters spent on Voldemort and the Death Eaters.<br />I was disappointed that she never spent more time on the House competitions and Quidditch.  I didn't feel the characters at the school of Hogwarts had anything to work towards without the magic and a competition of sorts.  I felt the parts of this series I fell in love with was lost in this book.  Harry reminded me of a spoiled, angry boy who never really developed his character in this book.  J.K. Rowling weakened the bond between Harry, Ron and Hermione I felt in the other books and replaced it with frustration.  I felt Harry turned into a spoiled angry kid who yelled at his friends, teachers and authority figures.  Maybe she was writing about all 15-year-old boys and their frustrations, but if I wanted that I wouldn't have to go any further than my own home.<br />Unlike the other books, I kind of missed the good feeling at the end.  This book left me with more questions and the lack of accomplishing anything.  What is it that Harry accomplished in this book anyway?