OK, take a deep breath, shake off any Confundus Charms on you, draw yourself up bravely like Harry facing Voldemort, and admit the painful truth:  "Phoenix" is a bad book.  A very bad one.  A humorless, lumbering, convoluted, 900-page mess that acts as a combination Crucio and Stupefy spell to Harry's millions of loyal fans.<br />Harry, now 15 and in his fifth year at Hogwarts, is no longer the awestruck 11-year-old from "Sorceror's Stone".  He spends most of "Phoenix" alternating between anger, frustration and sullenness, all understandable given his age and the tribulations he's endured.  Harry's typically joyless summer with the Dursleys is interrupted by a terrifying visit from a pair of dementors.  A mysterious howler arrives for Aunt Petunia, of all people.  Soon after, Harry finds himself at the headquarters of the "Order Of The Phoenix", a secret organization of anti-Voldemort witches and wizards working tirelessly to counter the second coming of the Dark Lord.<br />All of this makes for a quite promising start.  But, the story bogs down faster than you can say "Avada Kadavra", the wizarding world's Unforgivable death spell than you will soon wish someone would hurl against you to put you out of the misery of having to finish this accursed novel.  "Phoenix" has too many new and unnecessary characters (the new Defense Against The Dark Arts teacher is particularly dreadful), too many subplots (few of which are adequately resolved), and far, far, far too many chapters.<br />Most Unforgivable of all is the book's wholly unsatisfying ending.  Without leaking any spoilers, let's just say it's clear that author J.K. Rowling felt she was under a lot of pressure to get the manuscript finished, and it shows.  Loose ends and gaping logical holes abound.  There is a dreadful 'deux ex machina' feeling to the climatic battle scene.  Many of the mysteries she so tantalizingly introduced in the early chapters are explained away maddingly with the equivalent of a wrist-flick.<br />Rowling's brilliant imagination and narrative gift are still visible in places, but it is as though they are entwined in Devil's Snare.  Please do not let Ms. Rowling's legions of apologists sell you that this book isn't as satisfying as its predecessors because it's more subtle, nuanced, or sophisticated.  This is nonsense.  It is none of the above.  It is just plain bad.<br />If the strain on Harry is palpable in this novel, it is ten times so on Rowling.  The young British mom, like her famous creation, finds herself at the center of a worldwide storm she inadvertently created, one that must seem to her to have spun out of control.<br />The Harry Potter series is too strong to be derailed by one terrible installment.  But, drastic adjustments need to be put in place for Books Six and Seven.  For starters, Rowling needs to take as much time as she wants to decompress and write Book Six, and if it requires ten years then so be it.  She also needs a dedicated editor or three, a continuity checker, and a publisher with the guts to take a 900-page manuscript from the world's most famous author and send it back with a yellow sticky note saying "Great first draft, JK darling!  Now cut it down to 350 pages so we can publish it."  Scholastic, are you listening?