I love the first 4 books, but after the long waiting, this 5th is a definite disappointment to all Potter fans. It is way too lengthy, a lot of unnecessary new characters and repetition of points make you wonder if Rowling is paid by the word count. The plot has too many holes yet much less suspense comparing to the previous 4 books. You could pretty much figure out what the climax scene would be 1/3 into the book and there's not enough suspense built-up leading to it. This makes the reading rather boring.<br />The most disappointing (almost offending to readers' intelligence) part is the numerous ridiculous holes in the plot. To name a few: To the end, you don't see why the stupid "thing" is so important that it must be guarded like crazy (maybe more explanation coming in the 6th?). If it is indeed so critical, then why there is no guard in the final night and all sorts of people (dark forces and Potter et al) can get to it so easily?<br />Why did Lord Voldemort make all of fuss of not going there to take it himself yet he finally showed up in the final night? If he had to show up anyway, isn't it more easier for him to do it himself right from the beginning? Why didn't Black remind Potter of the magical communication device (his parting gift)? He had numerous chance to mention it and yet he made all the "trouble" and "danger" to go through the fireplace thing instead of just telling Potter to use that gift ?!<br />Think about these carefully you will see that there always seem to be some explanations, but none of them is convincing enough to warrant the existence of the 5th book at all. It is a total waste of time and assaulting your intelligence. The only good thing out of this lengthy reading is more character development comparing to the previous four.<br />I would definitely not waste my time on this fiasco if I had the choice - I had to read it just to follow the series. I hope the next 2 books would recover from this. I hope Rowling could come over her writer's block and turn out some quality work matching the first 4. Otherwise, one more strike I'd have to give up this series altogether.