Now, I'm a Harry Potter fan--I've read all the books, seen all the movies, espoused the entire mythology surrounding the saga, and championed the series as a pivotal development in YA literature. J.K. Rowling might singlehandedly be responsible for getting teenagers interested in reading again. I admire her and the series for their ability to excite kids about literature, assuming--that is--that their fondness for reading propels them beyond books of the Harry Potter sort (as a literacy educator, that is my hope).<br /><br />So it was with great anticipation that I delayed my reading of "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows," the final installment of Rowling's epic masterpiece. Perhaps no novel can live up to the hype surrounding the publication of this last Harry Potter opus--when it was published, there was enormous publicity, and fans raced to buy it and read it the moment it hit the shelves. We all knew what was coming--the apocalyptic battle between our hero and the Dark Lord, Voldemort himself. I waited to read this one--I knew it would be my last chance to experience a new Harry Potter novel, and I was hoping that this final part of the series would be the magnum opus, quite literally the Harry Potter novel to end all Harry Potter novels. I wanted this novel to somehow epitomize all the wonderful and wondrous aspects of the series that have made it so popular and so enchanting to millions of readers. And, alas, I was disappointed.<br /><br />The story itself was rather satisfying. It all ends pretty much as you expect it would, and Rowling throws in a couple of clever twists. We learn a great deal about Dumbledore's past, and we finally learn of Snape's true motives. As a finale, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" does everything a finale is supposed to do--answer the big questions, tie up loose ends, showcase the final epic confrontation between good and evil, and provide a fitting ending to a charming saga.<br /><br />But, ultimately, it lacks some of the elements that have made the first six Harry Potter books so quintessentially Harry Potteresque--the overwhelming majority of the action does not take place at Hogwarts (which deprives the story of the strong anchor that setting has always provided), Dumbledore is of course absent from all but a few chapters, Hagrid makes only a few cameo appearances, and Harry spends a lot of time brooding. I usually rip through a Harry Potter novel, but this one felt more like a chore than an adventure. I began the novel sad that my Harry Potter adventure would soon end, but I finished the novel grateful that it did.