Indifferent.  That's how I feel about the ending of the Harry Potter saga. There was no satisfactory ending in my opinion. Yes, there is an ending and it resolves many of the issues at hand AND Rowling does kill off two characters and many more minor characters meet their demise, but the ending had no emotional resonance for Harry (or me). The final battle with Voldemort was anti-climactic. It was just, "We're here...exposition, philosophise, monologue, meaning of death...fire...someone's dead". The whole battle, outside of the talking, took like two paragraphs. How lame is that? And the other deaths don't motivate Harry to go on to this final battle so much as clarify one's allegiances and the other motivates someone else to battle. It would have been more satisfying to me if someone closer to Harry (like Sirius or Dumbledore in previous books) had met their end and we could have been on that emotional journey with him. If someone like Prof. McGonagal, Hagrid, Neville, Ginny, Hermione or Ron had died protecting Harry from Voldemort a sense of honor or redoubling of his efforts to avenge them would have happened and given me a more satisfying ending. I was much more touched by the death of two other characters close to Harry. The first was killed in the escape from Privet Drive when a curse hit this character by mistake. The sudden and senseless death put a lump in my throat and tears in my eyes. The second was killed by Beatrix Lestrange while helping Harry escape from the dungeon of the Malfoy Mansion. Both of these characters sacrificed themselves for the greater good of Harry's mission. Their deaths meant Harry could go on. This is what I was looking for in the resolution to this story. Alas, I didn't write the damn thing. The book, on whole, was great except for the last half of the final chapter and I kind of thought the epilogue was a cheat (although I thought the "King's Cross" chapter was unnecessary). I don't know if J.K. Rowling will ever visit this world again. The story of Harry and Voldemort is done. There is no going back. But the wizarding world is still there. Hogwarts still exists as do it's professors and students. Should she decide to return to this world again at some future date, I will be along wand and broomstick in hand.